you
this is gonna be a little bit different
than what I did the other night this is
the other half of demolishing Islam and
I don't apologize for saying that I have
said it for years that I think we really
need to see Islam stopped in our
lifetime not Muslims but Islam now let
me make a distinction and for those that
I have to be I I have whenever these
videos get put up on ya left ik on their
focal site the Muslims grab them and
they pull them down and then they unpack
everything I've said and then they take
me on and it's great fun so I know this
is all gonna be you Muslims you're gonna
take all of this stuff and you're gonna
pull it down and this is one way to
engage in some ways it's a good way also
to be peer-reviewed this is a way of
being peer-reviewed I know that hundreds
of Muslims are gonna see what I'm gonna
say today and they're gonna put up
videos I'm gonna have to then respond to
them and that's how we learn and that's
how we actually increase and so it's
it's great fun this kind of interaction
a month let me give you our background
as to why and who I am so you understand
why I'm saying what I'm saying because
it may disturb you especially being
European this kind of talk I grew up in
India was born in India
my parents are missed kids my my we're
missionaries my grandparents were
missionaries so I'm third generation
Mich kid from India my parents my
grandparents went to India in 1913 and
my family's still there my sister and
her husband lived there and they're not
gonna leave my parents graves are there
my grandfather's grave is there they
never left India they loved it so much
and dedicated their whole life and to
understand why Islam all of North India
is mostly
Muslim and we are now the second largest
Muslim country on earth India is we have
surpassed Pakistan as the second largest
according to the latest statistics we
will soon surpass Indonesia as the
largest Muslim country on Earth in about
another 15 to 20 years with the
demographic growth that we have in India
so having grown up in northern India and
having had Muslim roommates I've had
grown up with Muslims in my school I did
all my first 12 years in India and then
I left India and when I remember when I
left I I was so glad to leave India and
so glad to leave all the Muslims because
they were very aggressive they were any
discussion we had it was always the
Muslims against me
we and so I've grown up my whole life
debating that's why I have no fear of
Muslims I love them they're the most
engaging people but I didn't at that
time in 1971 and I was so glad to
finally leave and go to a place called
America now my accent is American right
but this I didn't get in America I got
this in India at a missionary school
called Woodstock up in the mountains so
when I talk to Indians I talk like this
hey what are you doing white man talking
like this but I can't help it you know
we talk like this all the time this is
the way we talk whenever we're in that
environment moving into the American
accent I have to use that in the West
and it's that background that prepared
me for what I'm doing now
now I didn't plan to go back to the
Muslim world I married a Misch kid like
myself from Kenya Judy here's her
picture here my wife and she grew up in
Kenya I grew up in India we met in
America in undergraduate studies but we
after we got married we were I was doing
postgraduate studies at that time and I
went to a seminar a one-day seminar
some like what we're doing today on
Islam and we were told back this is 1981
now so we were told back in 1981 that
there were 800 million Muslims a huge
number how do you compute a number like
that too big but then we were told that
there were only 1,500 missionaries
working amongst them now that number I
could I could compute that was a small
number and we were told that 1500 only
made up 2% of all missionaries so
worldwide we were sending only 2% to the
fastest-growing religion on earth and
those two numbers were like a slap in
the face and I turned to my wife and I
said what in the world are we doing
wrong why is it we're only sending 2% do
one religion that's attacking us at our
foundation the one religion that is
growing faster than any other the one
religion that is taking over the world
now that back then in 1981 it was still
pretty much in the Muslim world there
weren't that many Muslims in the West
yet and so we went to our mission board
and we said listen send us to the Muslim
world and they had no work with Muslims
which was symptomatic of the very
problem so I we were seconded that means
we were lent out to SI em which used to
be called Sudan interior missions now
they call it Society of International
Ministries and they sent us to Senegal
West Africa by this time I had already I
had a master's degree in Islamics from
fuller seminary under dr. Dudley
Woodbury so I thought I knew everything
I need to know about Islam having grown
up with it having had in a master's
degree in it and I went to Senegal and
the reason why they sent us to Senegal
is because no one else wanted to go
there because you have to learn two
languages to go to Senegal you have to
learn French and then you have to learn
wool off' so we weren't to work we went
to work amongst the wool of people and I
immediately realized that my training
did not prepare me for this kind of
Islam because this was a very much of a
Sufi Islam it's the contraries the
Brotherhood's the God the Linea the de
janilla the Maurice
especially the Maurice which was an
indigenous organ of Muslims and every
one of these Brotherhood's had theorists
or Mara booze murder booze would be like
chefs there would be authorities but
they became ace mediators between God
and man they took on the role of
mediation now that I had never really
studied I didn't that doesn't exist in
Orthodox Islam at all in fact it's
anathema in Orthodox Islam and most of
these conferees these Digitas this cut
that aniyah's had come out of Iraq and
had filtered down through West Africa
and remember in West Africa we've had
Islam there since the 11th century so
it's a very old form of Islam while we
were there and we'd get dedicated to get
five years there and we started a church
in Wolfe there in our front room and we
were the first wool of church in Senegal
it is now daughter two or three other
churches but after five years we got a
mess I a warning or not a warning
a call from our missions office saying
there's a real problem in London now I
looked on the map and London did not
look like it was in a 1040 window in the
that window that you think of the
majority of Muslim populations the tenth
and 40th parallel London was outside of
that window and I couldn't figure out
why there were a this large group of
what they called radical Muslims and
they didn't know how to deal with them
and they didn't know no one know that
none of the missionaries had ever come
across this kind of Islam well I
suddenly perked up and said hold on him
and radical Islam those are my people
they're the ones I love they're the ones
I work with that's what I'd grown up
with do you understand what I mean by
radical Islam well what's the word
radical mean give me a definition of
radical a radical number is what root
there you go so let's use that
definition radical Islam would be the
root of Islam to be a radical Islam
means to go back to the root so what
would be the root of Islam there you go
and the model for this book okay so the
book in the math the book of the man
would be the root of Islam and this is a
this was created by a man named eben
tamiya in the 1300s and he was the one
that actually defined real Islam he said
to be a good Muslim you must read the
Quran and you must follow Muhammad the
book in the man the book in the man 1300
remember in the fifteen hundreds two
hundred years later a man in Germany
said much the same thing about
Christianity his name was Martin Luther
nailed up that was 95 thesis on the
Wittenberg door remember that what did
he say to be a good Christian we must
Sola scriptura we must only come back to
Scripture who which is modeled on Jesus
Christ and we call that our Reformation
and I've heard so many people say when
is Islam gonna be reformed and I said
folks it got reformed before we got
reformed they beat us by 200 years even
tamiya is the foundation for Islam
worldwide all year radical Muslims go
back and they coat him the reason why is
because there were two men in the
seventeen
one name even al-wahhab dalawa ababab
was living in medina
and he was studying in medina 1700 so
you're talking about well four hundred
years later with him was another man
named wa EULA who had come from beehad
in India eastern India or my
grandparents worked now they weren't
living in 1700 obviously but back in
1700 these two men were studying even
tamiyas material so they were
inculcating this whole paradigm of going
back to a book modeled by a man to be a
good Muslim that's the definition
al-wahhab stayed there in he remained
there in Arabia he then amalgamated
himself with a family called the eben
Saud family the eben Saud family then
eradicated all their enemies and took
over the entire Peninsula but they were
nothing more than a political control
they needed some
they needed a religious a real
authenticity and that's why then they
brought in Allah because he became he
gave him the legitimacy of theology and
that's where Wahhabism started so what a
business based on even love that's where
the name comes from seventeen hundred
look at your dates that's four hundred
years ago
meanwhile while hula went back to India
and he back in India he's the one that
started the madrasas all over East India
when the British came to India his
disciples were so strong that the
British had to contend with them and
what the British did is they just moved
them right across all from North India
over into the mountain synthesis so they
fled up into the mountains the Hindu
Kush in the Himalayas where they still
are today
that's why places like was it Astana
where the Pashtuns are all this North
frontiers Northwest Frontier that was
all became strongly radicalized Muslim
all based on why he hulis teaching that
was based on eben Tamiya's teaching so
this has been around for a good seven
hundred years this is not new now let's
jump to the 20th century in the 20th
century then you had there in India you
have two names that you need to know of
one is not duty who lived in northern
India in fact he lived very close to
where I grew up before me and in the
1920s and the 19 to the 1940s he was in
the in the city of Dale bond which is
between Delhi and of where I lived up in
the masucci up in the mountains I
remember when whenever I'd go back to
visit my parents from boarding school
the train would stop there and Dale bond
and there'd be this big huge Madras hose
on either side of the railway tracks now
being a young kid I didn't really see
the significance of these huge madrasahs
I have now learned about more about them
now that I've left but it was
fascinating because he then in 1947 when
India got its independence he then took
a move from India and moved over to
Pakistan and start the jamaat-e-islami
and the jamaat-e-islami then took over
many of those madrasahs in the
northwestern frontier and they created
huge schools of training all training
and teaching even Tamia's material go
back to the Krong modeled by the Prophet
Mohammed
their students were tally base tally Bay
means student in Arabic and in Urdu the
Talib a became the Taliban the Taliban
then moved into Afghanistan because
that's all question they're all the same
tribe moved into Pakistan and throughout
the Russians that's probably where you
all came into the picture that's where
many of you then worked we're living and
you know what happened once they threw
out the Russians meanwhile in Delhi well
even before that in 1920s a man named
Mohammad Ilyas Mohammad Ilyas was
another very radical Muslim who had been
brought up on even time years material
he had been heard about all that was
real but we're now in 1920 she started
another group called the topically
Jamaat in Delhi capital of India and
remember at that time Pakistan India and
Bangladesh were all one country created
by the British so that was a huge block
of Muslims right there in one country in
1947 then it became three countries West
Pakistan India and East Pakistan or the
other way around for you West Pakistan
India and East Pakistan so here you have
the two big Lee Jamaat growing in India
you have the jamaat-e-islami growing
there in Pakistan that's what's
happening Indian subcontinent now this
group that the book is about has grown
and grown and grown since 1920s in 1924
so almost 100 years it now is it a
hundred and twenty countries and it has
a membership of 80 million then repeat
that number 80 million that's a big
number isn't it that's the population of
Britain right there those are the
Muslims I had to content I have been
having to contend with in Britain most
of the radical Muslims I'm engaging with
are the topically Jamaat it was the
typically Jamaat that came and blew
themselves up and killed 52 people in
July 7th 2005 in London do you all
remember that that is a typically Jamaat
most of the attacks that we've been
getting in London and Manchester were
just celebrating yesterday or today the
bombing of Manchester that was yesterday
I think that was at the big Shabbat so
almost all the attacks that we're
getting in Britain are infused by the
teachings of the typically Jamaat
these are the groups that you none of
you have heard about and you've never
will hear about because you're not
engaged in that level most of you have
only think about Islam as being Arab
you're not thinking about the Indian
subcontinent the Indian subcontinent
much bigger than anything in the Arab
world and it's the Indian subcontinent
where we're getting all of our tax
against Christianity there is not one
well-known Muslim Arab who is attacking
Christianity name me one let me give the
names of all those who are attacking
Christianity Ahmed Deedat is he Arab no
he lived in Durban in South Africa but
he's from India zakir naik go up on
YouTube put his name there thousands of
videos by him
he's from Bombay probably the most
prolific today
Shabbir Ali No
lives in Toronto but he is from India
Anand Rashi from Pakistan Mancha Rothman
from Bangladesh most all of the best
known debaters today polemicists who are
attacking Christianity are from the
Indian subcontinent and there's a reason
why they're from the Indian subcontinent
two reasons really one is because they
were colonized by Britain and being
colonized by Britain they have grown up
with the English educational system from
Middle School on up everything is in
English in India Pakistan and Bangladesh
unlike the rest of the Muslim world
where everything is either in Arabic or
whatever the local languages Indonesian
are all the rest but secondly because
British British Britain is a Christian
power they have already engendered and
engrained himself on how to attack
Christianity and they solved quickly
much quicker than the Arabs world that
Christianity was Islam's greatest threat
and it stands to reason where their
greatest threat because we stand against
everything they believe we stand if you
look and see the two religions when you
look at them and you do a comparison
between Islam and Christianity
Christianity on every in every major
case stands against Islam so can you see
then why in the Indian subcontinent this
has gone much quicker much faster and
the other reason is just look at the
numbers just look at the numbers of
Muslims in Pakistan India and Bangladesh
if you just add up their Muslim not
Hindu not anything else just Muslim
population you have over 650 million
Muslims look at the numbers there's
nothing that is as big as that nowhere
else in the world is as bigger than
Indonesia only has 200 million the whole
Arab speaking world the entire Arab
speaking world is only 270 million 650
million just in one block and yet we're
not doing anything hardly anything no
one wants to go to the Indian
subcontinent so that's why I've
dedicated and done most of my work again
on the in the Indian subcontinent that's
why I have to work in this area because
when you work with India's and Pakistan
Bangladesh
you have to engage in the historical
critique the reason why is because
they're using it no Arab I've never met
an Arab that attacks me historically or
that even defends Islam historical they
don't even understand that there's a
problem there and the reason why it's
not that they're not intelligent enough
it's because there's Christianity is so
small and so weak it doesn't even appear
on the radar it's not a threat to them
there's no threat whenever I'm at
speakers corner for 25 years I would go
every Sunday down to speaker's corner
and I'll be there this next Sunday a few
days and we would engage with whoever's
in front of us and almost invariably if
I'm talking to an Arab I'm just gonna go
in a circle with him they won't in
they've never heard of the Trinity they
won't even know about the Christology of
Jesus about authority of Scripture they
don't even know that that's the problem
none of these things you mean they've
never heard this they have no idea that
Jesus died on the cross or essa died in
the cross these are things that they
don't think about they want to talk
about George Bush they want to talk
about Trump they want to talk about
politics they want to talk about Israel
they want to talk about anything but not
theology because they don't believe that
there's a problem with theology they
don't even know that we have a
difference in theology so I don't engage
at that level with them well that's not
quite true
I make sure we engage theologically
because I'm not there to talk politics
I don't care Dilys what about politics
that's not true I do but not when I'm
engaging with Muslims if I have a Turk
standing in front of me I have to tell
them what they believe before I can even
take them on because they have no idea
what they're to believe if I have a
North African either a somebody from
Algeria or and we get quite a few from
Morocco they come through I have to
quickly switch to French and then we go
at it but they all want to talk about
the French colonial system they all want
to talk about how terrible the colonial
system is they don't want to talk
theology because they don't think
theology is important but when I get
somebody from Indian subcontinent
anybody from Pakistan India or
Bangladesh I have to take a deep breath
because I know I'm in for a real battle
and they will have Bibles in their hands
they never have a Koran they never bring
a crown they only have Bibles and they
have little post-it notes all the way
through with seeming errors or
historical mechanisms or scientific
problem
god bless them aren't they great I'm so
excited when I see a Muslim with a Bible
in their hands because then I know I'm
home now I know that we're gonna have a
great discussion and we usually go out
to tea afterwards and usually they pay
for it and this is the lovely thing
about Muslims they love especially from
what the Indians have gotten they love
to talk theology and they love to talk
about two things what are the two things
they like to talk about what would you
guess the book and the man they always
want to take on this book and they want
to take on the man behind this book
Jesus Christ to me those are the two
things I want to talk about and I don't
even have to dangle a carrot in front of
their eyes all I have to tell them as
two things and I wish whenever we get
into especially facts I haven't seen
them before they're the first time I've
ever seen them I always say I believe
Jesus is God I believe the Bible is the
Word of God you have an opinion and you
might get six hours opinion just on
those two subjects especially here in
the West especially here in Europe
because they already have been trained
up on how to confront those two areas
and that's why I encourage you get to
know some Muslims wherever you are find
out where they are and just talk about
Jesus and the Bible then you're gonna
have to talk about the Quran and
Muhammad at some point you're gonna
that's gonna come into your conversation
because they will make claim after claim
after claim and this is now where we're
gonna get in today's today's talk so
that's the introduction which took me
what 15 minutes sorry about that
to get into how many have heard seen
this lecture before that I've done this
lecture once before back in 2016
none of you one too well you've seen
everything I've done so you don't count
fact I might have you come up here and
do some of this this is my other expert
over here so he's the other one day
other Islamists in the room what we're
gonna do then I'm I wasn't gonna go
through all introduction but since none
of you have seen this or don't where I'm
gonna go we're gonna do the whole
introduction and go and walk you through
it so that you know where we're going
now we are gonna go till 10:30 then
we're going to have a half an hour
break for coffee and try to peel
yourself off the floor and I'm gonna
come back at eleven o'clock and go till
12:15
am I correct 12:15 under orders of my
friend from Scottsdale because she wants
to then give you I guess a handout for
after that and we do need to get out of
here and get our luggage so we don't get
stranded here from getting our planes so
let's go ahead and at any time if you
have any questions just raise your hand
because we have lots of time to get
through this we're in no hurry and I
really do want to engage and I want you
to come back at me try as best you can
especially email you put on your Muslim
cap today all right try to be a Muslim
and try to listen to this from a Muslim
spec perspective and try to hammer me
anyway you can't because the more I can
get hammered now the better it's gonna
be for that film but also it's better
for the Muslims to see that we are able
to engage like this as Christians let me
define terms I am a polemicist my PhD is
in polemics in fact I think I'm the
first in the world to get a PhD in
Islamic polemics for one very good
reason most people don't even know what
the word means secondly there's no
school in the world that teaches it this
doesn't exist am i correct
there's just no school that would would
dare teach this because they would be
targeted by Muslims polemics do you all
know what this is someone who doesn't
know what that word means you all know
what it means
yeah great so we can go right ahead so I
go on the offense that's what I am I'm
very offensive and I don't apologize for
being offensive because this is exactly
what I'm called to do don't you do this
in the Arab speaking world in Pakistan
you can do this in India but not in
Bangladesh all right you can do it in
Indonesia I have I've used this in
Indonesia I got stopped at the airport
when they saw who I was and I and they
wanted to look at my computer but I had
a look I better be careful what I say so
this is all coming from film I won't
tell you what I did but I we got in and
we were able to do so I can teach it in
these countries be careful about using
it in Muslim countries that's all I
would say and it's sad that I have to
say that
isn't that interesting we don't said we
don't do this with the Christian world
no there's no Christian or any
organization that would censor anybody
criticizing the Bible
or criticizing the emergence of
Christianity or criticizing Jesus Christ
this just doesn't exist it did
historically we did have a historic
appeared where that did happen but not
today and certainly not in the New
Testament period and that's why in
fascinating that we're now coming full
circle we're doing what Paul did and
what I'm doing today is what Paul did
when he was in Ephesus or Berea
Cappadocia Laodicea whenever he went
into the synagogue and confronted the
Jews with what they had done to the
Messiah that's what I do I fault he's my
example and he's my paradigm so what
we're gonna do today be aware of the
fact that this is more for Europe this
is for your locale this kind of material
you can use all over Europe and really
all over the world just not in the 1040
window and I'm even saying that be
careful because there may places are
many places you can use it in the 1040
window
I'll let each one of you decide in your
own wherever you're gonna move or what
cover country you're in how it is
effective or not so let's start with
this claim that Muslims make so what do
they claim well they make the claim and
for the last fourteen hundred years
they've made this claim now I am gonna
tell you put your pencils down you're
not going to keep up with me however all
of you can have this pop power point at
the end of the at the end of the session
just give me your USB Drive and I'll
slip it over to you and you can put it
on your computers so this is available
to all of you not to those on the camera
I get this all the time people all over
the world because you said we could have
this PowerPoint because I said it on
camera for people only in this room you
can have this PowerPoint alright because
I do not want to spend my whole life
sending powerpoints all over the world
and remember even what I say today in
another six months
it'll have changed because we're getting
in so much new material all the time
that's the exciting thing about this
material it is new and it is exciting
and it's all going one direction which
is really helping us out so let's go
ahead start with this claim whether they
Muslims are radicals whether they are
nominal whether they are liberal they
would all make well maybe not the
Liberals let's hold off on the Liberals
they may not make this claim but anybody
else would say that the muhammed is the
last and the greatest of all prophets
they would say that the quran was his
revelation sent down only to him
and that is the final and greatest
revelation so it supersedes anything
that comes after it or sorry even before
it and therefore Islam is the final
religion based on Muhammad's life in
sayings and the Quran
teaching so that's the book in the man
this teachings of Muhammad would be the
Sunnah and that would include the citta
which is a set of torresola his
biography the hadith which would be his
sayings the tafseer which would be the
commentaries on the Quran and the topic
which would be the history so those are
the four genre of the Islamic or the
Sunnah of the Prophet looking at his
example to then apply what's in the
Quran so Islam is completely dependent
on one book in one man the book in the
man so we need to investigate both the
Quran and Muhammad and see if indeed the
Muslims are correct we've already done
the book two nights ago
and that by the way is up online that
what I did two nights ago is already up
online on Van der films if you want to
take a card here's the thing on YouTube
founder films go up and look at it I put
it up about a month and a half ago it
was a talk that I did on the Quran in
Hong Kong back in November where I was
to debate a Muslim and he never showed
up so what I did we decide to go ahead
and put it and do it at the University
there the the City University the day
before we were to do that talk at the
City University that Muslims in Hong
Kong
went to the authorities and said that I
was a hate preacher and that I was in
Islamophobe now the City University
didn't even ask to talk to me about it
they just banned me from the university
just like that this is the second year
running where that has happened the year
before
in 2017 I was also in Hong Kong to go to
another university to talk a similar
talk and we had already started to talk
like I were doing right now we were half
one hour into the talk when the
authorities came and threw us all out
200 of us and we all had to walk down
the hill to a church and continue it but
you know you can ban us all you want we
still film everything we say and that
went up on on my Fender films site about
a month and a half ago over
40,000 people have watched it now and
we're getting reports in Muslims are now
contacting me who have become Christians
because of that talk the same talk that
you all hurt but you heard very
encapsulated very short form that is now
up so you can get the one on the Quran
on founder films that's up there now now
this year is the next step this is going
now to Muhammad himself this is going to
the emergence of Islam and to these
claims one book modeled by one man so
what about the man well let's see what
Muslims have said and this is what I
called this is the classical account
this is the only account you're gonna
hear on University campuses this is the
one you've grown up with this is the one
that every Muslim knows and it starts
from the premise that Muhammad was born
in 570 in Mecca that he received or he
came upon an angel in the hid acavie now
he would go up there and meditate
according to the classical account I'm
gonna keep saying the classical account
okay
you'll see why according to the
classical account based on even Hisham
and he bet you suck so anytime I say
even his Shami and even his suck hold on
to that you'll see why in 610 then when
he was approached by this angel well he
didn't know who it was but and the angel
says gonna which means read or recite
and his response was mark i cannot
receive i could not recite the angel
squeezed him this happened three times
and finally the angel let him go he fled
back to mecca went to his wife Khadijah
his only wife at that time told her what
had happened and so she did a quick test
by having him sit on either leg asking
the question and then disrobing knowing
that if it was an angel they were the
angel will not be in her presence while
she was naked and so when he's still
considered to sit still said yes this
was what happened to me she realized he
was telling the truth
went to her cousin eben vodka even no
fall to have him listen to this story
what a key but no fall according to
their traditions was a nestorian
christian isn't that interesting so her
cousin is the one that listens to the
story turns to Muhammad and says truly
the you are a prophet this is a
volition coming to you so it's a
nestorian christian that gives muhammad
the authority as a prophet one of the
ironies of history he that he starts to
receive these revelations and he
receives them from 6-10 to 622 there in
Mecca he then while he's receiving these
revelations he then recites them he does
not write these down his companions
there in Mecca would memorize what he
was saying so if you look at the Quran
and you just split it in half now this
goes from right to left because it
follows the Arabic that would be Medina
this would be Mecca so it's these surahs
at the bladder half the second half the
crime there are some Medina and material
here and there is some mecha mutt that's
the Meccan it's the second half of the
Quran because they're the largest sewers
sorry the other way around
they're the smaller sewers so these
revelations were much more short-winded
to begin with and they got more and more
long-winded as he moved to Medina he
moves to Medina in 622 but before he
moves Medina and then 621 he is woken up
in the middle of the night and he's told
to go up on the back of a winged horse
who flies him up to Jerusalem and from
Jerusalem he elevate he goes up to this
seven heavens gets up to the seventh
heaven and meets Allah up there who
tells him to pray 50 times a day comes
down to the fifth heaven meets Moses
Moses how many times I asked you to
praise his fifty saw its weight to me go
back up and see if you get it down so he
bounces back and forth between the
seventh and the fifth heaven bringing
the prayers down from 50 45 down to ten
five prayers once he gets it to five
prayers Moses is fine now you can go
back down to earth that's where we get
the five prayers from the it's called
the Mirage and that happens there in 621
while he's in Mecca interesting so the
five prayers we the mall Muslims pray
today come from Moses and it's
fascinating because you will not find
five prayers in the Quran you will only
find three
ironic isn't it nonetheless this happens
in 621 622 that he is invited by the
unsolder in Medina to come up in
arbitrate between the unsought and the
Jews the boundary of kind of a family
the bottom of the deer family the Banu
Qurayza these are three Jewish tribes
that were very wealthy and they were
dominating the trade in the unsub we're
having difficulties with them and that's
why they used Muhammad as an neutral
arbiter to come and do that arbitration
so he moves up in 622 it's known as the
hidden Ahidjo means as you know it means
Exodus so he has an exodus to Medina
with around 80 some traditions say as
many as 200 followers so it was not very
large not very many people at that time
622 then he starts receiving these this
part of the Quran the first part they
have Medina in material much longer much
more violent these are the problematic
chapters not these 622 then that begins
and then in between 622 and 633 then in
630 he then moves down to Mecca takes
over Mecca without firing a shot so now
he now controls all of the central part
of Arabia called Hejaz and then in 632
he suddenly dies which tends to happen
to all of us now at his death the Quran
had not yet been written down it was
still on pieces of bark stones and on in
the memory of his companions up a bucket
of takes over control and he rules for
two years and at that time he then is
the first to write to have the Quran
written down he takes a man names ID Ben
tubi - is his the secretary Muhammad -
he gives him that responsibility so
there's the first recension the first
copy the first codex of the Quran
written in 632 - 634
couple bucket dyes normal death Uman
takes over and he's the one that starts
to expand the borders and mu starts
moving right across North Africa in your
direction this way and then goes this
direction over towards the sus in that
area the sustenance these are the
Persians now he then is killed in 646
and booth month takes over so he's the
third Calif Calif would be like a king
so from 646 to 656 booth Minh is in
power and then he takes that copy that
was made by a demon tobot and that had
been hidden under the bed of Huff's ax
one of the wives of Muhammad he takes
that copy of hers and has a demon Thamud
redo that Quran again recopy it and to
do it in the quad HD dialect that
happens in around 652 and then from that
one copy
they make nine copy send it to nine
different provinces and then he is
killed in 646 and the cousin and
son-in-law of Muhammad Ali then takes
over as the fourth caliph and he only
survives five years on the in 651 then
he is killed at the bottle Battle of
Siffin by mooyah so here you have you
have the four caliphs you have
Muhammad's life and you have the for
chaos and I psyched I say six if you
went 661 because he takes over in 656 to
661 so that's the story the classical
account have any of you heard any
different now you may have heard many
other things I'm just giving you the
bare skeleton okay is there any reason
to doubt that everything I've told you
where does it come from I helped you out
about five minutes ago I gave the names
of where this comes from
Ibanez suck Ibanez Shawn al-bukhari
Sahih Muslim even down alte body have
you heard these names before if you were
a Muslim and those who are listening you
would know these names immediately and
you would know that this is the only
source for everything I've just told you
there's no other source
what are these names even a suck even
his shell Sahih Bukhari Sahib Muslim
eben doubt nobody good man
you do remember hi give them a
combination take a look and see where
this material so everything we've
talking about is right here in this
period right there's the 572 632 and
then on up to 650 6 hour run run
necessary so all this that we're talking
about is where that red line is now
hopefully you would assume that
everything that we're talking about was
written by people who live then right
should be right but they don't the first
time we hear anything about about
Muhammad's life is from ebony suck right
here look when he died
765 but we don't have any of India sucks
material everything we know about
Muhammad Allah Islam began was actually
written down by this guy right here
opinion Shama look when he died 833
Muhammad died in 632 how many years 200
years so the first time we hear anything
written down about Muhammad's life
anything we've heard about how Islam
began about Medina about Mecca about
this story about him going up to the 7
heavens all these great stories is first
written down 200 years after the fact
even Hisham didn't even live in that
part of the world he lived far to the
west and hundreds of years later in
hundreds of miles away he gets it from
Ibanez sunk but as he says himself much
of what even a sock said he did not
trust so he threw it out and only
retained that which he trusts so we have
no idea whether or not even the material
from eben his sock is in his writing so
therefore everything we know about
Muhammad begins to be written down in
what about the sayings of Muhammad which
are even more prolific we're told by the
Islamic scholars that a man named Abu
Hadi was given six hundred thousand of
these sayings of Muhammad they're called
a bonus and he took those six hundred
thousand and then he whittled I think
idiot threw out 98% of them and only
retains seven thousand three hundred
ninety-seven so basically seven thousand
four hundred of the six hundred thousand
he only retained 2% of it and through
all the rest away he dies in eight
seventy so that's two hundred and forty
years later that you get the first
sayings of Muhammad written down in a
codified form we don't even have a
body's original text the earliest texts
we have for a body is not to the 11th
century when you get all set nine
volumes the nine volumes of albahari
are not do not appear until a 17th
century what attitude are you seeing
what I'm saying
now the others that write down the
hadith men like Sahih Muslim even now
they all right after 870 so you're
talking about 240 and later that you
finally get these references to what
Muhammad said but these people don't
even come from Arabia Bull Hadi comes
from blue Hara which is up north of Iran
today hundreds of miles away hundreds of
years later they had never met Muhammad
yet they suddenly know what Muhammad
said so everything that we're depended
on for our Muslims are dependent on for
the classical account comes from not 765
but from 80 38:33 and later now let's
look at Christianity let's look at the
biography of Jesus and look at the
sayings of Jesus the biography of Jesus
would be the Matthew Mark Luke and John
the black-letter part of Matthew Mark
Luke and John the sayings of Jesus the
hadith of Jesus would be Matthew Mark
Luke and John
the red-letter part wherever it's
red-letter so you have read letters
wherever Jesus speaks that's the hadith
of Jesus the seer I didn't talk about
the tafseer the tafseer of of the
commentaries don't begin to appear until
923 that's the 10th century that's 300
years later he is the first to write
down any Tufts here and he's also the
first of the body is the first to write
down any topic which would be the
histories of
mankind 10th century so everything we
know about Jesus what he said and did
was written well the first three Gospels
were written within 40 years of Christ's
death bran by 60 80 70 80 and then you
have John though Turin written about 90
80 so within 60 years of Christ's death
you have the hadith of Jesus and the
citta of Jesus am I correct 60 years
written by those who actually knew him
John and Matthew were right there they
were with Jesus for the last three years
they saw what he did they heard what he
said so they were eyewitness the other
to mark and Luke got it from the
eyewitnesses who are with Jesus so here
you have the tough sit in the tip end
and then that tough sia the tough set of
Jesus would be the commentaries that
explain what he did would be Paul's
letters the gospel of Jesus applied in
Philip I the gospel of Jesus applied in
Corinth in court in Ephesus these are
the letters so that's the commentary
that would be equivalent to the tafseer
of Mohammed these would be the tough
seal of Jesus they were written within
15 to at least 65 because they are 62
when Paul was then finally killed in
Rome so all of them would have been
written within 30 years of Christ's
death am I correct on that though he was
not an eyewitness to Jesus himself he
was the one that took and then applied
it to each one of those cities and the
party would be the book of Acts there's
the equivalent the book of Acts which is
this history of the early church that
would have been written by Luke it had
been written between
six-six I'm sorry 50 to 80 and 60 to 80
within a 10 year period so you then you
understand that within 30 years you get
the puffy so all four genres are written
within 50 to 60 years of Christ's death
all four genres forum Mohammed would
rewritten two to three hundred years for
Mohammed's death which is more
authoritative
and yet no one's asked this question I
remember hearing this in 1994 when I was
studying there at school of Warrington
African Studies under dr. Gerald
haunting and I heard these late dates
and I said wait a minute I raised my
hands and I said this is hugely
problematic he says yes but we're not
going to talk about that because there
were 25 Muslims in the class and he was
the first one to introduce me what I'm
gonna be doing next but it was
fascinating that he did not want to come
to any conclusions because she was
fearful of what the Muslims would say in
London the premier school in London on
historical the historic the history of
Islam so 21st century scholars are
deeply troubled by this these late dates
and so they're saying this Islam as we
know it did not exist in the seventh
century but evolved over a period of two
to three hundred years the Quran
probably was not revealed to one man in
22 years but likely evolved or a period
of fifty to a hundred years their
conclusion is that the history of early
Islam at least from the time of the
caliph of the Mallick and before is a
later fabrication now that's a huge bit
to say how am I gonna prove it
I'm not gonna prove it I'm gonna let
them prove it we're gonna use their
material so let's look at their concerns
this is the primary concerns why is it
it took so long to write this down why
did it take 200 years to write down what
Muhammad said and did 240 years in some
case where the people not literate
remember they controlled by six six
eighty five this is by the time of the
mullet comes to power and creates and
we're gonna see remember that name we're
gonna talk a lot about that name this
morning of the Malik he is the great
Calif from 685 to 705 who then
introduces the Arab the whole Arab
identity but nonetheless up until his
time they met controlled masala Bogdan
Damascus Jerusalem Cairo by 642 and then
from Spain to India by 685 Spain to
India that whole swath of land from
Spain to India was under the control and
still is under the control except for
Spain and Jerusalem Israel all the rest
that land is still under their control
1400 years later
so there's no reason not to have written
this down plus people could read and
write could they not in those countries
certainly they could we know there was a
library in Alexandria in the 5th century
that was burned to the ground so people
could read and write
Muslims tell us that they could read and
write they are the ones that tell us
that this was written down in 632 by
Zayat even thoug be if you're writing
down that means you're putting together
a book right it's their claim so you
cannot excuse it by saying no one could
read and write that early doesn't work
any more more than that
where did the 9th century biographers
get their material from well if you look
at every one of the UH cabarrus there's
a month in that in that procedure and
that would be the names the east nod the
Assad would be the names of those from
what this Pattillo Kate got it from so I
got a from sone so we got from some so
we got from Sun Tzu who got from the
companion of the Prophet and in every
case of all of these uh commodities they
have these missed ads that are derived
there now what does that tell you what
is this all based on oral tradition
everything we know about Muhammad
everything we know about Islam
everything we know about the emergence
of Islam everything we know about how
the Quran was put together all comes
from oral tradition I have a problem
with oral tradition because I know
what'll happen if I told you something
in your ear and you tell her and he
comes on down here by the time it gets
to him what I tell you and what I tell
him are two different things you pay
that you're probably played that in
birthday parties we call it Chinese
whispers sorry if there's any Chinese
here but or telephone it's a great thing
to play but Infini 15-minute period if
you can get a whole different story
can you imagine what happens over two
hundred years and so you can see that
this is problematic this is enormous ly
problematic if this everything that
Muslims are dependent on everything they
know about how Islam began who their
prophet was and also how the Quran was
written is all based on oral tradition
can it be trusted absolutely not and
that's why we're the historians are very
concerned and what they're saying is why
not if we cannot trust that why don't we
go back to the 7th century let's go back
to the 7th century let's go to this time
period when the world looked like this
and this is by 661 so we're talking
about 60 51 they already controlled this
part of the world they moved into that
part and so from from Andalusia which is
Spain the name for Spain today it's
called Andalusia then all the way over
to the Moghul Empire which is now India
today that whole swathe of land was
under their control very literate and
very certainly would have had no excuse
whatsoever to have written this down now
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna look at
these scholars here these are the
scholars I get my material from dr. John
Wong's burrow who is head of department
at school of Warren John African Studies
he came out with two books called
chronic studies and sectarian milieu in
the 1970s that blew open this whole
criticism and so he's he's I'm gonna be
using him dr. Gerald hunting was my
teacher in 1994 when I studied there at
school of Warrington so as and he looks
at the first century of Islam and as the
probably the best one that I've come
across that unpacks that material for us
dr. Patricia Corona was a I knew her she
when I started my doctorate she was the
MA
she was my first one of my first
supervisors she was at Cambridge at that
time she reads and writes 15 languages
all archaic languages so you can see the
scholarship that we're talking about I
don't think anybody's been able to equal
her she didn't just passed away about a
year and a half ago she got death
threats for writing a book on mekin
trade I'll be using her material on
Mecca that we're gonna come to and she
had to move from Oxford University to
Cambridge University that's when I knew
her my first debate in 1995 I went to
her office and she was the one that
actually walked me through all this
newest material and it was her material
that I used in that debate
I gave ten historical questions to dr.
Junger Badawi in 1995 August of 1995
that was my first debate on this
material
we're in 2019 this is 24 years later and
yet jemelle body are in
none of them have been able to answer
those 10 questions all of them came from
dr. Patricia Corona now that was we put
that up on the internet it's still up
there and you'll see why because some of
those aren't going to introduce in this
talk so this is nothing new for me this
has been around for 24 years 25 years
moving on to 25 years dr. Andrew Ripon
out of Calgary he has probably one that
has brought these difficult ideas and
put it down to layman's terminology he
just passed away as well dr. Robert
Heinlein out of Oxford he's no longer
there I think he's up in Edinburgh I'm
not sure he's that right now but when he
wrote his book on seeing Islam as others
saw it he reads and writes 18 languages
so these scholars are really linguists
they go back to the original language
and they read him in the original
language and they usually don't
translate them for the rest of us
because they don't want Muslims to read
this which is tragic because they're up
in a Scholastic world they're in the
academia world and they do not want this
to get down to the streets when I was
studying with dr. Jerrold hunting I
would take what he was saying in class
and after two weeks every Muslim in that
class left the class only I said not
every two remained this is the 1994 when
we were getting that hearing this
material and it's the first time I'd
ever heard this material I had a
master's in Islam and I never come
across this material because they were
not teaching this in America yet this
was only been taught in Britain and
Germany those are the only two places
they were teaching this new material
and I remember there's the Muslims left
they slammed the door yelling a lot but
as they slammed the reason why is they
could not come up with any rebuttals
they had no idea how to handle this kind
of material and that's why
Jerald hunting was going very soft he
didn't want to come to any conclusion he
just put it out there well I was going
to speaker's corner at that time and I
just started to try it out at speakers
corner and I got filmed there they
didn't have you know these smart phones
back then but they did have cameras and
it was put into a video cassette and
they were selling it in the bookstores
there in London and one of the students
saw this VHS remember the old VHS has
brought it to dr. haunting and showed
him and one of your students is getting
up and actually introducing what you're
teaching down a speaker's corner he
called me to his office and he gave me a
lecture he says don't you ever do this I
said sir if you're putting it out there
I've got
use it if you're refusing to use it I've
got to do it don't stop me
Muslims need to hear this it's no good
for you just teaching teaching it in a
class and keeping it cut cut coached and
keeping it private this is devastating
for Islam this is going to destroy and I
set it to the side this is the Keeley's
heels of Islam right here and here you
are keeping it to yourself keeping an
academia where it doesn't belong
thank God you're doing the research but
let us if you're not gonna do it don't
stop me from doing it let me get it out
there 1995 I was introducing it I was
back in the 1990s that the speaker's
corner was very violent this is before
if Muslims became peaceful there was no
narrative a piece back in 1990s that
only came after 9/11 where the narrative
suddenly changed overnight but back then
we would they would have all these
speakers on different ladders and
there's about ten speakers down there
and all around there would be their
thali base there are disciples from the
Jamaat nice Larian to publicly Jamaat
and I would go into each group and I
would try to confront the speakers and I
remember introducing dr. Gerald
hunting's material and one day in 1995
the guy who was up on the ladder of he
was a convert Trinidadian called convert
to Islam I can remember his name anymore
but he got off the letter and he was so
he had been a professional boxer and he
just slammed me and I went flying and I
went out I went unconscious I don't know
what happened after that what I was told
is about 60 Muslims came and start
kicking me on the ground and dennah a
big black man came and laid on top of me
and took all the blows that's what I was
told the police finally got and were
able to pull me out and it was in the
news the next day and I asked the police
where's this black man I'd like to thank
him says he's disappeared had no idea
who he was a number of years ago I was
at speakers corner and I was on a ladder
and this time what was back there in
1995 the police were so concerned
because they said listen next time
you're gonna die there's no way we can
protect you you've got to get on a
ladder so we can see you at all times
yeah I said okay I've never been on a
ladder before and I'm not really good at
homiletics and I don't know how to yeah
I couldn't string a lot of words
together I wasn't really that as clever
as I am now
because speakers corner trained me to do
what I'm doing now I see I said you've
got to get a letter at least for your
own protection
so I said okay I'll get on a ladder and
I've been on a ladder ever since I'll be
on a ladder this Sunday but in I was in
the middle of a debate I had done by
four debates what was happening by the
not by 2010 11 12 I've can't remember
since 2012 I would talk to the camera
and I would tell Muslims this and I'm
here every Sunday if you have any
problems what I'm saying come and see me
coming and debate me and I always keep a
second ladder for that reason and they
would come up these guys would come from
all over the world they would come and
we would have these half an hour debates
5 minutes 5 minutes 5 minutes 5 minutes
back and forth five minutes and it was
so much fun because you really engage
them very quickly and you don't know
what the subject is but you don't have
any computer you have no books in your
hand you have nothing you just have to
have it all in your head
and that's a great way to learn how to
engage like that case if you can do it
at speakers corner you can do it tea
shops anywhere in the world and it's a
great way to train us and then after
this one day day I had debated maybe
four different Muslims about half an
hour each I had got off the ladder and
suddenly I start getting beat up I just
start they're punching me this young
there I think they looked they look like
they're Middle Easterners because they
had never heard this kind of criticism
before and you can understand if you're
hearing this kind of criticism how
damaging it can be for the Muslims and
suddenly a big black man came and put
his arms around me said let's go J and
he took the blows for me when I turned
around to thank him he had disappeared
so I called him Barry
my black angel I was told by the Muslims
that there are two angels above the
branches who sit there and they could
see them a fellow Mubeen guy in nine
2010 came from Canada and he saw these
angels on the branches above me and he's
scared to death we went and had dinner
afterwards and he told me about it and
he had no idea what those two people
were why those two guys were up in the
way they were up in there in their
branches and I said well tell me what
did you see because I've never seen them
in the 25 years there I've never seen
any anybody in branches above me these
big oak trees that we stand under there
at High Park and he says well there were
two men sitting on a branch looking at
you smiling at you must have seen them
Jay they scared me you must have seen
him I said no but I know what you saw I
said every day I get up on the ladder
there are churches in America 20
churches
I get up on a ladder at four o'clock in
the afternoon they're there at 11
o'clock in the morning so five hours
difference they're starting to pray that
I preach the gospel they're starting to
pray that Muslims hear it they're
starting to pray for my protection
you saw the answer to their prayers
those are angels I have never seen them
and I know that Christians see angels
everywhere but Muslims are not used to
this you have no idea of the index
that's why God wanted you to see them so
that when you told me you saw these two
men I could trust you before I could
trust any Christians on this so I called
him Harry and Barry Harry and larry
those Harry and Larry on the branches in
Barry on the ground but this is the kind
of stuff that when you unpack it you're
gonna have to you're gonna have to use
this kind of protection when haunting
heard that I was doing this I said to
him you keep doing the research I'm not
asking you to go public with this
however anything you publish I can quote
so be careful what you publish but
please do publish it because we want to
quote them and I said this is I
understand this is not your battle
you're nothing more than academic you
don't have any anything really there's
nothing that you're in that there's no
reason why you would want this to go to
the Muslims because you don't have a
better answer you have nothing to give
them I do and the question is what do we
do and we if we're going to talk about
oral tradition or we're gonna talk about
historical authenticity and credibility
should we not apply that to every faith
including the Jehovah Witnesses
including the Mormons and especially the
Mormons because I understand and I'm not
a expert on Mormonism like you are but
when you look and ask the same question
historical critique on Mormonism
it destroys Mormonism especially with
the glasses of Joseph Smith that's my
name by the way so and I'm also a junior
just like he was so it makes me
problematic can you see then why if this
this exercise that we're doing today
must be done to every book it must be
done to the Book of Mormon it must be
done to the Obama shots the
bhagavad-gita the Vedas all the Hindu
scriptures have to also pass the same
historical test that so far only the
Bible has so getting to your second
question there's the segue right into
the second question I don't want to
leave them hanging I don't want a theist
to take this material and use it because
they have nothing to replace it with I
want to make sure that when Muslims hear
the the criticism that we're gonna give
the historical criticism that we're
going to give on
there emerged on the emergence of what
they believe has always been authentic I
don't want to send therefore destroy
that faith because God bless them they
have a faith in God they already believe
in heaven and hell they already believe
in the prophetic line they already
believe that there is a that there is a
beginning in it and in more than that
they also believe that there is a
problem with sin so already we see have
some commonalities I just want to bring
them home and I want to bring him home
throughout another book that has passed
every one of the tests we're asking of
the Quran I also want to bring him to
home to another man that's also passed
this historical test that we're now
applying to Mohammed so for heaven's
sakes don't destroy that but I also want
to say same thing to all of our Jehovah
Witnesses and certainly our Mormon
brothers and sisters they need to ask
the question we're asking today of the
Book of Mormon and they're gonna find
that there are holes enormous holes
historical holes with the Book of Mormon
therefore don't give up God just come on
home just come on home and I say that to
my Muslim friends come on home because
the their their faith in God is
beautiful and the fact that they have
such a strong faith in God I'm jealous
of thatthis that face but I they got the
wrong God they've got the wrong history
they've got the wrong prophet they've
got the wrong book so let's move on
let's go ahead and look at these
characters well they're not characters
they're quite well-known individuals
Hoyland as I said from Oxford Jahoda
Neville I reviewed the cross his lab was
at the University of Jerusalem he is the
one that actually want and looked at the
earliest inscriptions and noticed all
these inscriptions had no Shahada on
them no reference to people called
Muslims no reference to a religion
called Islam yet these are inscriptions
from the mid 7th century moving right up
to the late part of the 7th century
Muhammad died in 632 in the beginning of
the 7th century so he's done an amazing
work looking at the earliest Arab
inscriptions and that's why I purply say
Arab not Muslim and then you have a
German school Luling twin one both more
Olek these are the ones who are part far
the best in the world on the earliest
Islamic or chronic manuscripts
and we're not gonna talk about them
today but the others we will but there
have been three books that have come out
one of them is right here in the shadow
of the sword by Tom Holland in 2012 so
it's been out seven years if you don't
have it get it because he took that this
very academic material and brought it
down to layman's terminology so that you
can use it you can get it on Amazon it's
it's large thick book so be careful read
the first hundred pages then jump to the
last hundred pages and then you get
everything that's essential anything in
between is as good but it's not dealing
with the historical critique and then he
did a documentary that tried to
encapsulate what he was saying in his
book in 2012 in August 28th called Islam
the untold story that was shown on
channel 4 television and just it's only
90 minutes long and if any of you wanted
I have it right here on my computer I
can give it to you before you leave
today what's fascinating that he was
very careful not to come to any
conclusions he just put the material out
there and they you would have a scholar
a Muslim scholar I think from Georgetown
University who stood next to him and
asked him for his response
much like the question you just asked
and he's a scholar and his response was
who cares basically that's what he said
I don't really care because I realize
that we have 1.6 billion and on camera
he would have to say that and that's
what there's Dale say at speakers corner
this Sunday who cares what's happening
is the people who are watching the film
care they have to save face and this is
called what we call the the the private
versus the public face I don't really
want them to say anything I want them to
go home and then deal with it I want
them in private to ask now what are you
gonna do want everything you know is get
has been destroyed from underneath you
your foundations have been thrown out so
they tried to show this film a second
time in November the Muslims we wrote in
they reef it had they refused to let it
be shown and so it's never been shown a
second time
the censorship is so strong in Britain
now for anything that's against Islam
then you have Dan Gibson now dan Gibson
is an archaeologist archaeologist he has
rather than write read books although he
has read book his whole life he grew up
in a family that were archaeologists his
grandfather was an archaeologist his
father was an archaeologist they all
lived in the Middle East so he grew up
in the Middle East he spooks speaks
fluent Arabic and he went in 1979 and
started did research on the the
geographical areas that in the Quran and
also on the giblets
especially the giblets that means the
direction of prayer and I'm gonna use a
laugh a lot of his mature because he has
come out with me he has probably been
the most prolific in this area so from
1979 to 2004 for 25 years he lived in
Morocco he lived in Jordan
he lived in Yemen and he just spent his
time amongst the Bedouin and he is the
first one to actually go to every one of
these locations physically go to every
one of them and then take coordinated
get his coordinates in situ didn't stay
in London or in a large city away from
their place he actually went to each one
of these locations to find out how to
answer these questions so what are they
finding I'm gonna give you the
conclusions before I even support those
conclusions what they have found is that
the first Arab inscription referencing
Mohammed is in 691 hold on him and he
died in 632 do you see how problematic
that is the first Arab I'm not using the
word Muslim I'm saying Arab inscription
we don't see any reference to Mohammed
in any Arab text prior to 691 that's 60
years too late the first reference to
Muslims is in the six 90s around the
same time that Mohammed is introduced so
is the word Muslim introduced yet
Muslims were supposed to been around
since 624 Mohammed was the first was the
Muslim that actually introduced it so
what did these Arabs call themselves
well they call himself Saracens that
stayed renamed for an Arab they call
themself Huggins because they came in
the line of Hagar they call himself
Ishmael Isaac the son of Hagar so they
were Ishmaelites they call themself
Margrave because their
and they call themself Muhajiroun these
are the names they get himself when you
look at their documentation they refer
to themself in these five names
Mahajan are people of the hijup people
of the Exodus could also be refer to
being nomadic the first reference to the
word Islam is not till 691 that's first
recorded on the Dome of the rock there
in Jerusalem built in 691 by Abdul Malik
that's why other Malik is so important
and then the first reference to Mecca
watch this the first reference to Mecca
is not till 741 whew - - - - that's the
huge one that's the one that is
disturbing everybody you'll see why as
we get to it the first biography of
Muhammad as I've already said does not
even appear until 833 so let's go right
into it let's look at geography now damn
Gibson when he looked through this book
here and of course he scoured it he
noticed that there are about 65
references to geographical locations
only nine places are named what was over
what was overwhelming were the number of
references to these people that had
contact with this prophet but it doesn't
name the Prophet in the Quran you will
only find Muhammad's name four times did
you know that I'll give you the
references right here these are the only
places you'll find his name chapter 3
verse 1 44 chapter 33 verse 40 chapter
47 verse 2 and chapter 48 verse 29
that's it all the way through the Quran
it refers to this prophet it refers to
the place of the Prophet but doesn't
give a name there's only one place where
Mecca is referenced and that's in
chapter 48 verse 24 that's it
so this man this prophet who lives in
the place of the Prophet or the
settlement of the Prophet but is given
no names suggests that there's a problem
here with that name ooh I love this can
you then understand that we're already
we're starting to see that there are
some there looks like that this name was
then added at a later date nonetheless
what we do know is that this Prophet 24
times has contact with people from the
moon which are the Nabataeans 23 times
has contact with people from wood or uh
which we now know is the biblical use
and seven times has contact with people
from millions who are the Midianites
the difficulty is look and see where the
people from thumb would in midian are
they live way up here 600 miles further
north he's down here in Mecca how did he
have contact with these people over and
over again day after day unless he had a
helicopter to trough travel 1,200 miles
do you see the difficulty that
immediately shows you that there's a
difficulty with the Quran itself so
let's then do a comparison in the Quran
there are 65 geographical references 9
places are named 600 miles too far north
every one of the places in the wrong
place
just look at the Gospel of Luke as a
comparison which is much much older it's
600 years older 700 years older than the
Kron 110 geographical represents 31
places named every one of them in the
right place no one disputes the Gospel
of Luke or the book of Acts that's the
beauty of the Bible so like with like
you can see enormous disparity just
between something as simple as
geographical locations in two different
books so let's now go to the second
problem Mecca and this is the biggie
what are you going to do with Mecca
well it's only referred to into chapter
48 verse 24 that's the only place you
will find in all it says is and he it is
who have withheld minsan from you and
have withheld your hands from them in
the valley of Mecca so we do know it's
in a valley after he had made your
Victor's over them Allah's here of what
he do so that's it that's all you're
gonna get from the Quran on Mecca it's
in a valley
we need to know an awful lot more now
according to not only the Quran
according to the traditions there's an
awful lot that Muslims impose on Mecca
though it doesn't say Mecca it just says
the place of the Prophet the Prophet
whoever this prophet is but according to
the Quran it's the first sanctuary
reporting to mankind is Bukka which
could be Mecca it is the mother of all
settlements according to chapter 6 verse
92 in chapter 42 verse 7 but it doesn't
refer to Mecca it just says again over
and over again the place of the Prophet
it is where Adam and Eve supposedly were
lived it was where Eve was thrown down -
according to the traditions in Chapter 7
verse 24 they're thrown out of the
Garden of Eden which is up in space see
their gardening medians in space ours is
on earth two completely different Garden
of Eden thrown down to earth and Eve was
sent down - to the place of the Prophet
which Muslims claim is Mecca Adam was
sent over to India southern India and he
walks across he just strides across and
gets to Mecca the guy must have been
huge but nonetheless there you can see a
reference to Mecca so that would suggest
that this place called Mecca was the
first settlement for all of mankind I'm
guessing it because I don't think
there's anybody before Adam and Eve am I
correct in chapter 21 verse 51 - 71 it
talks about Abraham it doesn't say Mecca
but he is in the place of the Prophet
and he built rebuilt the kaaba with
Ishmael what is Abraham doing way down
in Mecca 600 miles too far south he was
up - supposed to be in Mesopotamia and
in Canaan way up in the north but
nonetheless in chapter 21 he's there in
the Kaaba and he rebuilt she destroys
the images the idols in the Kaaba and
then he's thrown into a fiery pit which
seems to come from the story of Shadrach
Meshach and Abednego and then according
to the traditions Muhammad now the
traditions are written in the ninth
century now they're referring to Mecca
but these are the traditions not the
Quran according to traditions he then
was born in Mecca lived there until 622
so from 570 to 622 about 50 50 years and
that he then canonized the Qibla towards
Mecca according to chapter 2 verse 149
in the Quran itself yet the only
reference to Mecca as I said earlier is
in chapter 48
24 and as I say none of these verses
reference the name Mecca it's been
imposed on it and whenever you see it in
the Quran they always put it in
parentheses because it's not there in
the Arabic important whenever you see
parentheses in the Quran that's
commentary okay that's not the Quran
that's not the text so what we do know
from the traditions is that this place
where the Prophet lived that it was in a
valley in a parallel valley according to
him in his sake it had a stream going
through it according to Albahari it was
outside it are the ruins where the
pillar of salt were supposedly Lot's
wife was made into a pillar of salt
it had fields according to albahari it
had trees growing Asahi Ltd MIDI it had
grass coordinate Albahari had fruit
according to Albahari Albahari Alta body
talks about has clay in loam and both
the according to the Souris it had all
of trees with mountains overlooking it
according to even a suck now stop and
think this is a very fertile place am I
correct
and has streams it has a valley it has
clay loam tree it has all of trees can
you see the problem right there there
are no olive trees outside of the
Mediterranean world
nowhere you only have all the trees in
the Mediterranean world you do not have
any olive trees in anywhere in Arabia so
you can see immediately when you look at
this this is not Mecca
why haven't Muslims talked about this
before why have no historians mentioned
this before
well Dan Gibson saw this and he said
this doesn't make sense none of this
makes sense he started the whole problem
of Mecca the difficulty is when you look
at maps this is just a modern-day map
looking back at the 7th century look at
all the trade routes are in the green
lines and notice Mecca should be right
here that should be where Mecca is
notice they don't go through Mecca
so let's here's another map of the trade
routes and notice they all go through
come they come down through here Petra
so these ones are coming down there
notice this one here that's important as
well the one that comes along the
waterway so here's a map this is a map
from the 6th century
that's where Mecca should be it's not
there here's another one Mecca should be
right there
seventh-century Mecca doesn't appear on
that map here's another one from the 7th
century Mecca still missing a 7th
century map Mecca should be right around
there non-existent every one of the maps
that were getting from the 2nd 3rd 4th
5th 6th 7th century do not have Mecca on
them doesn't exist so that's curious
now let's look at this map this is a
modern map looking back redacting back
to what scholars believed existed back
in the 7th century and this is the map
that dr. Patricia Karuna looked at and
she saw problems immediately
now Montgomery watt the famous Islam
assist Scottish Presbyterian who is well
known for creating what we know is the
trade route theory suggested that the
trade coming from China in India over
here could not come this way because of
them of the Hindu Kush and the Himalaya
Mountains so that stopped the trade from
going this direction so they had to come
this direction and they came to the
western coast of India Gujarat and all
the coastal areas and they went across
the Arabian Sea up through the Persian
Gulf disembarked there and then they
took their goods over here to the
Mediterranean world so all the trade
needed to get to the Mediterranean world
they came this route that was where
trade went until the 5th century AD when
you had the Byzantines up here were
warring against the sustenance were the
Persians over here so you had these two
great empires warring against each other
which shut down all the trade going from
the Persian Gulf had been redirected
therefore down here to Aden down here
see Aden there the tip of the Arabian
Peninsula they would then take off their
goods here in Aden and then transept
across along this green line here all
the way up 1200 miles up to Gaza in the
north so it go from Aden to Sanatana
Doron to dive high Yathrib tribe on the
book and then on up to Gaza and what's
interesting when Patricia wrote Crone
looked at this map she said hold on a
minute there are two problems first and
foremost you can see the western plateau
here here's where the trade would goes
along
the Western Plateau but look where Mecca
is it's not on the plateau it's down off
the plateau can see there's kind of a
there's a detour from DYFS to come down
to Mecca then to get back up to you from
up there yes Rob is the archaic name for
what is now known as Medina what's more
she said look at Mecca it's not only on
the plat western plateau it's down off
the western plateau on top of which she
said it has no water how could it have
been a caravan stop off place since it
had no water to accommodate any caravans
it was not an oasis it only has one well
called the zum-zum well and other than
that it was arid had no vegetation that
was the first problem secondly take a
look at that map again and this trade
route theory that Montgomery want
introduced suggesting all the materials
and goods coming from the east
we're offloaded here in Aden what's
wrong with that theory now my
ten-year-old son saw the problem
immediately let's see if you're as
clever as my ten-year-old son
let's see why didn't it go through up
the red see exactly if you're on ship
already why don't you continue on ship
why do you take it off and go on land
patricia chrome found that if you go
fifty miles by land just that distance
it would be the same expense as going
1,250 miles by sea that's why we ship
goods all over the world today by boat
it's the cheapest way to send large
amounts of goods even today these huge
containing ships because you don't need
any caravans you don't need any camels
you don't have to feed camels you don't
have to protect them you don't have to
have a sister fall to be able to water
them you don't have to you don't have to
have any type of armament you basically
just stay on board ship it would make no
sense to take off all the goods here in
Aden and go 1,200 miles 50 miles by land
so but she went one step further back in
the 1980s she went and she went to all
the trading documents from the second
third fourth fifth six up until the
seventh century now she remember she
reads and writes fifteen languages so
she can read all the documents in their
original text she wanted to find out if
they knew of a place called Mecca she
wanted to find out if there was any
trade that went overland and what she
found is the fifteen spices that all the
traditions say existed in Mecca not one
of them existed in Mecca they all
existed over here in India and in China
and also here in Africa only two spices
came from the Arabian subcon and they
were down here in what they call the HUD
remote area what is Yemen and Oman today
none of them were up here in Mecca nary
in the Hejaz
there were no spices up there because it
was too arid for spices on top of which
all the trade from the second third
fourth fifth sixth and seventh century
was controlled by this place right here
a doula switch is in Eritrea today it
was the agilej Aleutians there retreat's
who controlled all the trade they were
the ones that plied the boats their
names are found over here in India there
were no Arab names found over here in
India in the trading documents
the reason was very simple the Arabs
didn't really weren't really seafaring
people they were mostly camel herders
they plied the deserts their caravans
were in the deserts and the only trade
that they were interested in was leather
and milk no spices so all these
traditions were fallacious but most
problematic was she could not find any
reference to Mecca in any of their
documents oh she found references to
thief just over here
she found references here in Stefan
where which is now Baghdad they sent
down they found up here in Yathrib they
found some silver and they stay open up
silver mines in Europe and they had
silver just north of Mecca
today's Mecca they have found silver
mines there she found lots of references
to Yathrib in 2002 Naja ran into table
book and the Khyber no reference to a
place called Mecca at all can you see
how this is rather disturbing now she
got a death threat for writing that book
and so she hadn't moved to Cambridge
University but that book is still out
there you can go read it today it's up
online go pull it down and read it and
you can see this destroyed the trade
route theory of Montgomery wat and
destroyed what everybody has assumed and
she said even if they had applied in
these spices of myrrh myrrh and
frankincense which was you use here in
the HUD room on your way up here how
could these people control the trade
that was down here why would they let
these people hundreds of miles away
control that trade and where was there
any evidence of any of that trade so the
first place that she could find any
reference to the city of Mecca was the
apocalypse of Sudha Methodius continued
Tobi's on Tia Arabica that's it that's
the first document anywhere she came out
with this in 1987 we're now in 2019
nobody can find an earlier document 741
Muhammad died in 632 supposedly Mecca
existed at the time of Adam and Eve
Mecca was where Abraham went to in 1900
BC Mecca was the center of trade north
south east and west according to all the
Islamic traditions from the ninth
century yet the first reference to the
city is not till 741
the mid eight century it was not on any
map until 980 no map included it it was
such an important city the oldest city
in the history of mankind if it was a
center of this enormous Kingdom if it
had everything to do with the trade off
now north south east and west why had no
one heard of it so what about modern
Mecca today they're now building huge
stories of this huge story buildings
this building here is the fourth tallest
building in the world its enormous clock
tower that they have built there
overlooking the Kaaba down here now
they're there they're trying to design
it very much like Big Ben in London
because they want to make that the
centre of time they want to change
Greenwich Mean Time and put it to mekin
meantime and so that's why these
buildings are being built what's
fascinating this is the future of Mecca
this is what it's going to look like
these are the four different plans you
can see they're cementing up the entire
place now why do you think they're
building so many big buildings well
obviously because they would say the
Hajj is there but take a look at what
they're doing here you can see the
property where wife Khadija this is her
property it's no longer exist that's
where the Prophet Mohammed supposedly
was born and where he crew grew up you
can see it's now being covered over look
at all these enormous amount of cranes
as they're building up they're gonna
build 62 of these skyscrapers all around
the Kaaba when you build skyscrapers you
need to have deep foundations don't you
therefore you need to dig into the sand
whenever there is an archaic city an old
city anywhere in the Middle East or
anywhere in Europe what's the first
thing you do you dig foundations and who
are the first people to show up the
archaeologists because the
archaeologists are licking their lips
because as you dig those foundations
you're coming across artifact after
artifact at artifact which recreates the
history of the city and they're doing
the job for you all you do is collect
those artifacts and put them into a
museum and that's what's going on here
so the archaeologists are all there
licking their lips and guess what they
have found
zero proving that there is no history to
the city this history has no city that
goes back to the seventh century now you
can see why they're cementing the whole
place up I think they know what we know
if there's no history they don't want
they want to destroy the evidence that's
me saying that I am NOT saying that
others say that if you have a problem
with Mecca you're gonna have an even
greater problem with the Qibla the Qibla
is the direction of prayer you've seen
Muslims pray in one direction anywhere
in the world they have to pray towards
the Kaaba towards Mecca am I correct
and that's why when you go around the
world
there's the Kaaba right there that's the
square building they'll pray there it is
right there in there this is the big
mosque that's all been built this is
actually an older picture that doesn't
have all the skyscrapers around it that
have been built but the Qibla is found
anywhere in the world when I was in
Malaysia that was in my hotel room show
me where the Qibla was if you go into a
mosque you can find these myth Rob's
these little niches in the wall and
that's where you know where to pray
today you can get it on your app on your
phone app to find it where the Qibla is
and the reason for that is because 5
times a day Muslims need to know where
Mecca is so the Qibla is absolutely
important for every Muslim everywhere at
every time according to chapter 2 verse
143 to 150 in the Quran it mentions that
the Qibla was changed from Jerusalem
down to the Great Mosque which they say
Muslims believe was Mecca doesn't say so
in the Quran but it says they claimed it
was Mecca
so at one time it did look it did face
what one place north and then it was
brought back down south again when the
Jews rejected Muhammad as a prophet he
then got a revelation from God to change
the qibla back down to the great the
Great Mosque now what's fascinating
there were some researchers back in the
last century 1905 dr. Parvati and dr.
Creswell who were doing archaeological
digs and they went to Iraq and they went
to two mosques in Iraq and they dug down
to the original floor plans of those
mosque and they found that this mosque
these mosque in Kufa and in wasit just
south of hug that today were facing
straight West this should have been
facing south
they went to foot stock which is just
out of sight of Cairo in Egypt which is
they are the that that the town that was
built as a for the rulers at that time
garrison town and they went to the
original floor plans of the first mosque
and they found that the Qibla there is
facing straight east if you look on a
map you'll see the problem so here's
what's up there's gufa they're facing
straight West they should be facing down
here here in foot study in Egypt they're
facing east there should be down here so
as late as that's over a hundred years
ago they already saw that there was a
problem with the Qibla now their their
response was ah these this these must
have been facing Jerusalem that's how
they responded and I remember doing a
debate in 1998 where I said the same
thing I was quoting them and I said if
you look at the mosque and Wasat in gufa
and pushed up they're all facing
Jerusalem and I got hammered by that the
Muslims got up there and they RIS
hammered me and they said Jay you have
no idea what you're talking about
you're three to five degrees off I said
oh okay
I should have taken them afterwards and
I should have found out why I was three
to five degrees off and they were
correct I was three to five degrees off
but back then I didn't hadn't met Dan
Gibson yet so I didn't know why I was
three to five degrees off I just
realized that they were very clumsy they
were so layer three to five degrees up
that's close enough but they certainly
weren't facing Mecca okay
so we've known about this for over a
hundred years petition knew about it but
she didn't know how to come to any
conclusion she just assumed like
everybody that the early
Arabs didn't know how to do their
directions and so that's why they're
well 90 degrees off in this case but
three to five degrees if you're not if
you're talking about Jerusalem even
Jacob of Edessa in 705 so this is the
eighth century mentions that he says to
about the mug racing so from all this it
is clear that it is not to the South
that the Jews and the mug nay the mug
day is the name that is given to Arabs
remember this is the name that was given
to them because that's where they're
from here in the regions of Syria pray
but towards Jerusalem or the Kaaba even
he thought it was Jerusalem back in the
eighth century it was until Dan Gibson
finally got on the scene and started to
doing his research from 1979 to 2004
that suddenly we started to see a
clearer picture and he went to every one
of these Mosca's he was curious as to
why so many of these mosques were
misdirected and he thought they couldn't
have been that bad because these were
desert caravans camel herders they
didn't have roads back then these were
Nabataeans the Nabataeans were famous
they were the ones that took the goods
all the way over to Bob Dodd and Beyond
because they were the only ones that
could could transverse the gonna desert
without ever getting lost because
remember in the desert you have huge
winds and every time the winds come it
changes the sand dunes so you cannot
have locations unless of course you're
using the Stars so if they were that if
they knew how to get from one place the
other if you can't get to an oasis you
die they were absolutely dependent on
getting knowing where their direction
was how could they be so off in all of
these directions so he decided to go and
look to every one of these places and he
went to around 65 mosques I'm gonna show
you 23 of them now and what we're gonna
do everything that I'm doing from here
on out is from Dan Gibson alright so you
can go up on his side go up on Dan get
some sight and look at his material but
also get his books these are the books
that he wrote just go back here no I
don't have it here I thought I had it
here did I not show his books
before that even way back here my
goodness there we go
these are the books you need to get the
Nabataeans wrote in 2003 where he first
came out and showed that almost
everything we know about Arab the Muslim
world today is dependent on the
Nabataean world the language Arabic
comes from the Nabataean script the name
Allah comes from the Nabataean God it's
a generic title the God Allah of whom do
Shara is the proper name Allah is known
no longer it's only his generic title so
most of what we know about Islam comes
from the Nabataeans who were way much
farther north but let's don't worry
about that now we're gonna come back to
that Quranic geography then came out in
2011 where he really unpacked the
geographical problems with this book and
that was a huge eye-opener but then he
did it's a sacred city in 2016 and then
he finally became with this book two
years ago 2017 since this book has come
out many researchers have really
attacked dan Gibson because people like
dr. Dan David King who did his whole
career is the world authority on the
Qibla but never went to those places
himself he well he may have gone to
somebody he never really did any of
forensic testing like Dan did has been
just apps and he's at the end of his
career can you imagine his whole career
is now in jeopardy so you can see the
problem there has been an awful lot of
anger as to what Dan is saying so what
Dan has done you need to go up on his
site
dan Gibson this is this year and he is
now taking all their accusations in
giving responses to them so I'm gonna
help you with the responses but he still
has another four or five videos to put
up so even next year we'll have even
more responses and this is why this it's
it's back and forth as we're as is going
on right this is what we call peer
review he's getting peer reviewed as he
goes as being confronted so less and
I'll jump ahead to what we're going back
and let's go through these slides real
quickly so we come to Dan Gibson's get
loose now this is what he found
on the ground he went to the maps of the
area accumulated the historical data of
the area and measured the GPS
coordinates from outside and inside the
building so he would go to the situation
you do he would not use Google Maps I
know the Muslims have hammered him
saying all he's using is Google Maps why
would you not use Google Maps has
nothing to do with America Google Maps
does not take the coverture of the earth
into consideration it's just flat it's
only interested in going from A to B
it's not interested in the curvature of
the earth so therefore and rightly so
when the Muslims say ah you've just used
Google Maps that's why you've got your
coordinates wrong he was not that stupid
he did not use Google Maps he used
advanced thermal emission and reflection
radiometer the Astra satellites which
are the most sophisticated satellites
put up by the Japanese they are what
they do the advancements spaceborne
thermal emission and reflection
radiometer obtains high resolution 15 to
20 square meters per pixel images of the
earth in 14 different wavelengths of the
electromagnetic spectrum ranging from
the visible to the thermal infrared
light scientists use aster data to
create detailed maps of land surface
temperature and emissivity reset
reflective and elevation aster is the
only high spatial resolution instrument
in the terra platform it collects an
average of eight minutes of data per
orbit so it's always taking pictures of
the Earth's surface that's why he had to
go to the best now you have to pay for
that and of course it costs an awful lot
of money but because of the fact that he
wanted to make sure his coordinates were
absolutely accurate he used them often
and what he would do he would then look
at from the satellite looking straight
down onto the moss and make sure he got
the Qibla line he or he had been there
he knew where the Qibla was he had seen
the Qibla it's very easy to find a Qibla
on on a building is it's either one of
two walls it's either this wall or this
wall or this wall or this I mean the
same thing those two walls go the same
direction these two walls just so you
really only have to to choose from and
it's always the longest wall all right
because that's what the hot mosques are
made they don't like churches ours are
within a cross formation looking towards
the front the
gibla and once a long line of men who
were standing side by side so the Qibla
wall is either one direction or one
direction 90 degrees off and so it was
fascinating because he could find the
kid was quite easily than what he would
do is he would find that wall and he
looked down from the from the space
looking down onto it and then take the
coordinates from space proving how
accurate his material is so he used on
his if you want to go up and question
his material you can go up on his
website the sacred city dot Canada on
the website so go up there and look at
it and look and see how he goes into it
more specific than where I'm showing
today now the tools here in this site
help you find every known early mass
qibla in the first 200 years of Islam go
to data on his site and then early qibla
tools and then also used the papers and
the maps that are up there now for
instance he says the Yamamah al Hajj
mosque is completely covered with sin so
how can we find the Qibla there's no
wall to see anymore
those who research this mosque then in
covered it with sand but on dance site
you can zoom in and find the original
pictures of that mosque taken by the
researchers and then see where the Qibla
was as it is uncovered in the picture
okay because Muslims are playing see how
can you have known where the Qibla
there's it's all set yes that is today
but it was uncovered at one time and
that's why he knows by looking and
seeing when he was there when it was
uncovered he knew where the Qibla wall
was that at that time so another claim
is that he was only looking at solstice
lines so what he did when he first came
out of his material he only had the
Qibla lines and then he also had the
Qibla towards Jerusalem the Qibla
towards the Qibla towards Petra and the
Qibla towards Mecca he has now added a
another dimension which is these what
they call the solstice line those that's
the X there those blue lines to show you
that none of these none of these mosques
follow the Solstice line that has been
nothing more than a benefice allegation
this is anything is that to the Dome of
the rock you're looking at right there
there's the Qibla but that's not really
the Qibla it's this little moss to the
side that actually has the Qibla in it
and that's the one you need to use so
you need to know the history of all
these places to know
there is so let's look at these mas and
let's start with this one here this is
known as the Qibla 10 mosque now many
early mosques don't have to bless to
help us because they have been rebuilt
many centuries later in the original
floor plans the structures have been
lost other mosques have been rebuilt but
we can see where the original plans
still are the Qibla Tomas Medina is a
case in point we only know this Qibla
here and so it's but it's called Qibla
tain which means the mosque of two Qibla
or in the name of the mosque you can see
that that suggests that there was
another Qibla at another time and was
not until 1987 that they were enlarging
the maus and as they started digging
down to do the enlargement they came
across an entire structure right here
showing the first Qibla but take a look
at what direction it's going it's going
an almost exact opposite direction from
that existing Qibla that's there today
the Qibla 10 mosque is in Medina just
north of Mecca today is directed towards
Mecca but the earliest Qibla did not
track towards Mecca so where was it
directed towards well if you pull back
and you look and see see where it's
directed towards now when it first went
in 1987 when they saw it they thought it
was Jerusalem because as you can see it
is pretty much going towards although
it's a bow off by about a degree or two
from Jerusalem but look what else it's
more directed towards petra hold that
under your hat so the Great Mosque of
Guangzhou in Canton this is thousands of
miles away this is in China look at the
Qibla there it's directed towards petra
there you can see if you look at the red
line that's the archaic that's the qibla
that's still there and that ma still
exists today it hasn't been
redistributed what week a long saw is
the Chinese name look at this mosque
here in Chatham on now we're in India in
6th look at the date 629 Muhammad's
still living at this time if he was
living nonetheless according to their
tradition he would be living because he
didn't itell 632 so here's a mosque in
fact this one also this
here is 627 so this is while Muhammad
still living so here you have moss at
the time that Muhammad still living that
are not directed toward where he's
living if he was for Mecca they're too
far north there are six hundred miles
they're directed six hundred miles
further north
Chad Amman Masjid in India 629 directed
towards petra jami hama al kabir of
mosque in syria 637 now Muhammad is dead
he's been dead for five years look where
it's directed Petra now we go to Egypt
the first thought mosque remember the
ones that the Farah body and Creswell
found in 1905 well they thought it was
Jerusalem it was not towards Jerusalem
Gibson founded they were actually
directed towards that those mas were
directed towards the Petra the Dome of
the rock
there's the Dome of the rock right there
now he has a question mark here because
that really is not a Qibla and what's
more that was built in 1918 I want to
say 76 or 1886 so a little over a
hundred years ago the Dome of the rock
has been built and rebuilt 11 times so
the outer structure that you're looking
at including the dome itself we're a
little over a hundred years old 100 over
a little hundred years old they then put
the qibla on that but that's it wasn't
there for the original structure that's
why Muslims have hounded me on that I
said okay but then take a look at the
entire citadel which way is it directed
straight towards petra we're gonna come
to this mosque right here that's the
al-aqsa mosque built in 709 in the 8th
century so that's built in sucks 91 this
is built in 709 so now we're in the 8th
century and look what direction it's
facing Petra not Mecca
you can't destroy it and rebuild it
again that's the problem there whom I'm
a mosque in Jordan built 699 so we're
now at the end of the seventh century
it's directed towards petra the imam
mosque in jordan so we've been in syria
we've now been in israel now we're into
jordan we've been into india we've been
into china
all these mosques from all over the
world facing petra now we're into the
8th century 705 were now here to yemen a
whole nother country this is the Grand
Mosque in sana it's facing Petra the kid
about alminia mosque in Israel 706 it's
facing Petra take a look at all these
mosques I'm just gonna pull back pull
back and now come forward notice where
they're all coming in so these are the
mosques that we've looked at coming from
all over the world they're all coming
right to Petra there's a map of them
medina china india syria egypt israel
jordan yemen all these countries these
mosques from all over not one of them is
facing Mecca they're all facing Petra up
until seven oh six every mosque is
facing Petra so far no moss has been
found its facing anywhere else but Petra
are you following that Muhammad died in
632 the mosque was canonized according
to Islamic tradition in 624 so we're
talking almost we're talking we're
coming up with about 80 years later
they're still all facing petra according
to the archaeological finds here's a
look of looking down straight on them
and you can see that all the 17 petra
qiblas fall within a 45-mile dotted
circle proving how accurate they were
this will become important later on then
in 706 a new mosque with a completely
different qibla was discovered and it's
somewhere in between almost halfway
between Petra and Mecca
you get a new Qibla this is Qibla number
two all right but there's nothing there
that's curious hold on to that I'll show
you why
back in 708 another mosque this is in
Iran it's facing Petra again the al-aqsa
mosque as I said earlier in Jerusalem
Israel 709 it's facing Petra like the
Dome of the rock like the entire Citadel
if you look at it you can see here
here's the Alexa mas there's the Dome of
the rock and you can see the Qibla is in
the red it should be in black it should
be going that direction it's actually
come off by those degrees there now when
you get to Damascus in Syria the Jomon
Jimmy Jimmy I should have you read this
because your what does that say in
Arabic so I don't dis interpret your
language your Maui al Kabeer yeah
Damascus 7 right in between again here's
the second one that's in between almost
exactly the same place is the earlier
one then we get the kid about Alma John
in Jericho and Israel back to Petra
again can you see MEK let's go back here
Mecca is the almost exact opposite
direction can you see that right there
that's Mecca today that's where the
mosque is directed in the red line the
anjaan Mosque in Lebanon in 740 Petra
again the most mosque of Omar basta
Syria then we come to the in-between
mark now we're in 721 were now almost a
hundred years later still no mosque is
facing Mecca
daaad al carbee mosque in syria 7:26 in
between it's not till we get to this
moss 7:27 look at the date now we're
over a hundred years later the first
mosque we have been able to find it's
facing Mecca the this is a third Qibla
so this is now Qibla number three the
first Qibla number one is petra the
second is in between the third is Mecca
Mecca is introduced in 727 here's a
custom hierarchy mosque in Syria 728
it's in between the Amman citadel mosque
Jordan 730 it's in Mecca now take a look
at this I want you to look at this a
little bit better let's look at this
next picture remember right in 701 I
said that this one down here was facing
Mecca and it still is it's the older
mosque in 701 that one faced Petra sorry
did I say Mecca Petra that's facing
Petra they then rebuilt this mosque up
here behind it and above it that's 730
that's facing Mecca so something has
happened between 701 and 730 both
mosques are still there today so the
evidence you can't destroy the evidence
proving that something happened that
changed the Qibla between 701 and 730
that's why this one's such a good one
because you can see both mosques in the
same area proving that there was a
change of direction between 701 and 730
hold that under your hat the Tamils I
dunno mosque in Tunisia now we get a
fourth Qibla all the mosques that he
found in North Africa and in Spain or
facing straight south parallel to a line
that goes between Petra and Mecca
Ruta - why for qibla Petra in between
Mecca parallel this is a four Cable
number four
baalbek mosque in lebanon in between 740
the most amassed in Amman Jordan 743
Petra again
so here Petra raises his head again look
at the date 743 this is 120 years after
the because they the qibla was supposed
to have been canonized towards Mecca the
her on mosque in Turkey way up in Turkey
in between not Mecca Casa al Qaeda Kufa
Ross there's one that is facing Mecca
764 dari about mosque in Tunisia
remember I said all the ones in North
Africa are facing parallel not
in-between not Petra nor Mecca the
Saharan de Bourgh mosque in Oman around
771 we know they don't know exact date
for that that is facing Petra again the
soma ie Omani mosque in Oman around 771
it's facing Petra again so here's the
still this hold out towards Mecca Petra
why Naraku mosque in Syrian 772 it's
facing in between the balsamic on in
Uzbekistan way overnight
it was Becca Stan way off to these it's
facing Petra possibly Jerusalem most
people now think it's now Petra the
Cordoba mosque in Spain like I said like
North Africa it's facing parallel the
dummy kuba even NAAFI the Quran in
Tunisia again 836 836 this is the ninth
century it's parallel it's not facing
Mecca so here are the four qibla the
Petrin kibbles are always the earliest
one up until 7 or 6 every Qibla was
facing Petra then they start introducing
a second Qibla in between then you have
the Meccan mosque which starts to be
introduced in 727 and then the parallel
mosques which are in North Africa and
Spain that are facing parallel all the
kibbles were facing towards petra in 706
there was confusion for the next hundred
plus years 17 faced Petra eight are in
between ten face Mecca six are parallel
the Qibla was not finalized towards
Mecca until 876 after 876 year talked
about the late 9th century all the
mosque then face Mecca
but that's 200 over 240 years too late
250 years too late sorry
so let's look at them those that's the
first Qibla see how accurate they are
how specifically they are coming right
to Petra and look at their all over the
world they're not all in one area all
the way over in Guangdong Canton India
here in the Oman in Yemen all the way up
here maybe someone got in and it was
Becca Stan so you can see these are not
spit these are so specific but they're
so accurate from such thousands of miles
away how do they get it that accurate
the second mosque then take a look how
how they come to one point but there's
nothing there what's going on here and
then you get the Meccan qibla x'
starting in 727 then you have these
parallel calculus which are up here in
North Africa and in Cordoba this looks
like a political statement to me hold on
you'll see why so why are the Qibla is
multi-directional mountain scholars
assume that the variety of qibla
directions were due to the inability of
the ancient Arabs of finding accurate
qibla direction its ineptitude is what
they're saying they just weren't very
accurate modern scholars simply quoted
earlier ninth century in Slavic scholars
concerning this theory and that's the
theory that David King has taken and
that's his biggest theory is the ninth
century scholars considered them that
they're just inaccurate but once they
got to the Mecca they were much more
accurate they assumed that the Meccan
kimba's were the most accurate well
let's take a look and see how accurate
the Meccan gibbler's are when you look
at they look at it according to all the
Petrin qiblas they were 2.9 degrees of
accuracy if you take out the two the
ones of the to take out the two words
it's down to 1.9 degrees off the in
between were point less than a degree
off they were by far the most accurate
the Meccan ones were four point seven
eight degrees off they were by far the
least accurate so this whole theory goes
off the window
they didn't get better they actually got
worse so why were the early Arabs so
accurate modern Muslim scholars assumed
the early Arabs were not and that they
were they didn't have adequate
mathematical abilities yet what really
happened was that the Arabs lost their
ability to define directions accurately
because Roman roads were introduced
which they use and thus they didn't need
the Stars to guide them thus the ability
to detect very accurate measurements
became lost
the earliest arabs who built the
earliest mosques use astronomy the study
of stars to find one's direction not
astrology the use of stars to tell the
future they had to because the trip
their trips across the desert was always
across the desert where the sands shift
and move and they would die if they
didn't know how to find their way and
what they would do is they would use
these these type of things they would
use to find the north and south they
would always use the Northstar which
never moves and they use the fingers or
the camel a block of wood on a string
which measured how far up and down the
knots on a string where once that that
block sitting on the horizon reached the
North Star so by pulling the string back
they put it on their horizon there's the
North Star and as they pulled it back as
it hit the North Star than they knew
where the knot was on that strain they
knew exactly where the direction was
something as crude as that yet saved
their lives for East and West they
needed to use a constant so they used
the number of steps a man walked in
order to arrive at his place they were
going men traveled on foot while camels
were used for carrying the goods as they
walked they employed poetry which had a
rhythm and a lot of number of lot of
number for each poem so when they came
to the end they would know how far they
had reached and simply added up the
number of times they had recited a
certain poem thus the reason they
chanted poetry as they walked they still
do that today now you know why it
actually saved their lives to chat this
poetry and that's why poetry was so
important for the early Arab especially
those the traders now the use stars to
find the direction they employed 32
stars which were used on a compass to
know when they needed to go east and
west from their location in relation to
the North Star thus for instance they
would walk towards naka there's naka
right which is a star in the north
western direction
when they went for a certain number of
strides depending on the poetry they
were reciting they were told use this
portrait do it thirty-two times and
you'll get that direction going towards
naka then they turned the other
direction they went towards Althea for a
certain number of poet poems and you go
and now go towards this direction for
ten of these power of poems and in the
eastern direction and so on and that's
how they found their direction we don't
do that today so we don't understand
this but if you're in the desert where
you better know how to do these
directions accurately and that's why the
earliest gibbler's are the most accurate
the later ones they no longer needed
that because now they were using roads
which had it mile markings on it
so why Petra
why is Petra so significance we'll take
a look at where Petra is it's right at
the center of all the trade it was the
sanctuary City for the Nabataeans the
Nabataeans did not have their empire
they were traders so they were all over
the world and they would have families
that would stay in different cities in
the different trading outpost therefore
they did not have any empire or any
capital city but they did have sanctuary
cities where they would keep tombs and
they would have their temples there
carved out of sheer rock you can see if
you've been to Petra these beautiful
carving that's a Treasury there these
are the tombs in temples so it's the
city of tombs in Temple for the
Nabataean people and whenever someone
died they would send the body back to
Petra or Medina sali those are the two
major cities of the Nabataean kingdoms
and they would then send them back to
have their bodies there and they would
make a pilgrimage back to Petra to then
were not worship but to honor their
ancestors there so Petra was the center
of the Nabataean Kingdom it was a center
of the trading bloc the trading routes
for all the trade north south east and
west and it's still there today but take
a look when you go to Petra notice that
Petra is in a valley it has a parallel
valley there's the valley there's the
parallel valley it has a streams it has
whole stream and in fact it has whole
waterworks that have been created
exactly what we're finding in the
traditions it is outside outside the
rooms would be a pillar of salt if there
would be
any Spiller thought it would be outside
the ruins of Petra it has fields it is a
place where the Prophet has trees and
grass and prom and fruit and clay and
long everything that the Quran is
talking about everything the traditions
are talking about exists in Petra not in
Mecca and it has all of trees the one
thing you cannot find anywhere in the
Arabian Peninsula you can find in Petra
it has mountains overlooking the Kaaba
so everything that we see these
tradition even is suck even is some
alpha body all I'm talking about this
place where this prophet came from and
they named it as Mecca in the 9th and
10th century everything they were
looking at everything they're describing
everything this book describes fits
Petra doesn't fit Mecca what's
fascinating Petra has all the items
listed above thus could petra be the
place they are referring to remember
also the people of other thumb would 24
times refers to these people from thumb
but 23 times the people from odd since 7
times that people are meeting they're
all up here around Petra so if you're
gonna have any contact especially as a
trader you'll have contact with all
these people that would make sense if
you're in Petra it would not make sense
if your way down here 600 miles further
down in Mecca so why is this significant
let's review so far nothing is known of
Muhammad until the late 7th century from
within Arab sources his book the Quran
is and it's managed to don't appear
until the early 8th century his city
Mecca isn't referred to until the mid
eighth-century his biography and his
sayings are not don't even appear until
the late 8th early to late 9th century
thus much of what we know of Muhammad is
written down hundreds of years later and
hundreds of miles away looks like he is
nothing more than a later redaction
possibly begun by Abdul Malik so can you
now no I'd understand why Stephen
Humphries who is a historian says Islam
in the prophet's life as we know it was
not derived from the 7th century but he
evolved or reappeared at two to three
hundred years and then redacted back
that means put back on the prophet's
life and compiled in the 9th century so
everything we've known about islam
everything that i talked about from the
very beginning that classical model is
not from the 7th century
it's from the 9th and 10th century
you know hold on that's the next
question your prophetic you want me to
get into that so let's go into that
we're not finished yet
we still have another half hour so here
are the questions we need asked why are
there no Muslim sources for 200 years
number one why do the claims they make
not fit the 7th century historical
record number two why are the
geographical references so few and
confused again why do they all seem to
fit on area much further north why are
so many references to vegetation which
would not exist in Mecca and why is
Mecca not even on the trade route why is
Mecca not even mentioned till 741 nor
included any Maps until 980 why do all
the qibla face petra for the first
hundred years well up until 706 then
they are confused for the next hundred
and aren't standardized to Mecca until
820 to 200 years too late is it not
surprising therefore that historians now
consider much of what we know about
early Islam is possibly historic
historically spurious so getting to your
points so what really happened now to
make sense of this I'm gonna give you
the scenario that we think is happening
in may 2000 and 19 it may change
completely by the next year because new
materials coming in all the time so be
aware that this is only hypothetical
alright for those watching this is
hypothetical this is what Jay Smith is
saying and others are now saying it but
I'm gonna say it now on the camera so
that you can honestly see where we're
moving and where we from everything we
know so far this looks like what's
happening to make sense of this we need
to begin with Abdullah even Zubat who is
well known he was the governor of Petra
during the time of Abdul Malik and
Marwan before him you have two great
empires that are being credited you have
the Umayyad empire which starts in 661
there are two families with nakooma id
Empire you have the sufyani family
that's from 661 up to about 680 and then
the mud ones take over the mud when it's
take over in 680 mud one the first is
the first King his son Isobel Manik he's
the second king he comes to power in 685
now remember up until that time the
Arabs had destroyed the sassanids off to
the east which is the Persian Empire and
now their biggest their biggest enemy
their biggest competitors are the
Byzantine Empire to the north the
sassanids were Zoroastrian the
Byzantines to the north are Christian
they have much more in alliance with the
Christians because they trace their
lineage back to Abraham both the
Christians Jews and the Arabs trace
lineage back to Abraham one through
Isaac the other through Ishmael so they
are cousins with the Byzantines they
have nothing to do with azor assets plus
they have already destroyed the rest
they're not really a problem for them
Petra but look and see and hear let's
just go to this map and then I'll come
back to this take a look and see where
their headquarters in so when you look
at their headquarters here is Mecca down
here right if as the classical account
says that the Umayyads were
headquartered down here then why is it
that everybody knows that they weren't
living down here they were up here in
Damascus twelve hundred miles further
north what were they doing in Damascus
why weren't they got in the hiz-ouse in
medina no one's asked that question
before we're asking it so they're way up
here in Damascus here's the Byzantine
Empire up here and further to the west
here's the Sassanid Empire over here now
the assassins were destroyed by the
Arabs coming up now and they took over
and they took over boss at about
Damascus Jerusalem and Cairo all these
cities along here what they call the the
Crescent the golden Crescent all those
cities were destroyed by 652
they now control those great five cities
of the Levant but all of the people that
because they were nomadic there are
Arabs they needed people to run the
cities people who were literate so the
best people that run the cities were the
Jews and the Christians that lived there
because they were not only literate they
were their cousins via Abraham so they
made the mollies or mow alleys and
that's well documented they became the
ones that ran the cities the Arabs being
nomadic didn't even live in the cities
they didn't like they were not urban so
they lived outside the cities in their
own garrison towns Bush dot is the
garrison town of Cairo over here so
first thought is the garrison town where
they lived the Jews and the Christians
ran the cities for them now here's the
problem so from 650 - up until 685 one
of the mullet comes to power the Jews
and the Christians had ran the cities
but yet hold on a minute the Arabs were
the ones that controlled it the Jews and
Christians have a prophetic line the
Arabs don't the Jews and the Christians
have a scripture the Arabs don't yeah
you control now the Jews and the
Christians but you don't have the
identity that the Jews and the
Christians have so what are you gonna do
Abdul Malik knows that he's been in he's
now he has seen 40 years of Arab
dominance he now moves into Damascus
he's taken over from his father he also
owns all that swath of land from all the
way from India to Andalusia which is
Spain from Spain Dene he was under his
control and yet he has no identity
because he has no prophetic line there
is no scripture to the Arabs they have
no scripture so what are you gonna do
you want to create an Arab identity hold
on to that so he's up here in Damascus
but his sanctuary is here in Petra
because he's just taken over the
Nabataean sanctuary which is the
sanctuary that all the Nabataeans who
from which he has derived his power
their sanctuary is here and that's why
all the mosques all lower from all over
are facing Petra
then in a 685 abdullah IBN zubair
rebelled against him he is in petra he
destroys petra and takes the black stone
and flees to the south well-documented
black stone what's the black stone look
at the antecedent it's a Nabataean it
the black stone is where God's presence
is when he takes God's presence out of
Petra you can see this is a huge slap in
the face to the Umayyads they have to
come down and of course as he's coming
down he something happens in Damascus
someone is killed he has to return Juba
of the mark has to return back up to
Damascus never finds even Zubair so he
goes to the south but we don't know
where he goes to in the south we just
know he goes to somewhere in the Hejaz
now evens
abdullah evens about he needs allies
against the great Umayyad empire so who
does he look to
well he looks over here to specify which
is the archaic name for what is now
called Bob Dodd so who's over here it's
Tessa Fong these are the original these
are the Arabs who hardened their and
left behind after the sauce and a
kingdom is destroyed they're the ones
who are living in Stesha font they come
to his aid because they hate the
Umayyads because they're in competition
with the Umayyads you have the Umayyads
here you have the Abbasid here so they
come and they become an ally with evens
about evens about it looks like and it
looks like now that's where Mecca then
becomes important because they now need
to put the black stone in a place a new
sanctuary so that's why Mecca was chosen
but remember Mecca has no history we
can't find any history for Mecca well
why is Mecca chose it take a look at
Mecca today look and see what Muslims do
when they go to Mecca they go between
these two hills back and forth seven
times
what are those hills for well they say
that's where Hagar went to look for
water
why do you commemorate looking for water
in these two hills when she never found
any water she found it where the sums
and wellas according to the tradition
why do you then circumambulate seven
times around the Kaaba why do you go out
to these three zoom rods and throw seven
or forty-nine of numbers of seven stones
at these three summits what are these
amulets these are Devils wait three I
thought there was only one devil only
one Satan what does this suggest to you
looks like this mecca was a pagan
sanctuary a pre-islamic pagan sanctuary
that did have similar that had enormous
importance for the nomads in that period
they have taken over that sanctuary
they've taken the form and they put
their own meanings on to it so now
running back and forth between marwah
and sulfa those two time those two hills
now is to commemorate hagar trying to
find water for ishmael and the zum-zum
well there is where ishmael for the
water came out so she could feed her son
in 1900 BC in a city they didn't even
exist in 741 AD
but can you see then why that has been
taken over and now everything has been
imposed under what is fascinating is now
the Abbasid have their sanctuary while
you have the who might have their
pre-existing sanctuary so here's a bill
Manik he wants to create an identity so
what's the first thing he does he coined
course he mints coins now before if you
want to look at the the numismatic
section in the British Museum you'll go
back there and you'll see these coins
these are Byzantine dinars there's a
picture of the emperor with two of his
conscripts and on the backside of the
coin is the Byzantine cross and that's a
Dean on in the seventh century of the
the sufyani has come into power the
model that we might hate it but and they
they're mint these coins which are very
similar in order for them to trade they
have to admit them very much the same
coins so now instead of the Byzantine
Emperor now you have the Calif mooyah
with two of his retainers on either side
on the backside that is the Byzantine
cross but they've taken Austin off the
cross piece can you have images on coins
there's a problem with that that's
obviously this is not Islamic because no
Muslims will have image any image on any
coin so what are they doing with images
on their coins obviously iconoclasm was
not a problem for the early Arabs but
then remembered they weren't Muslims
theirs they didn't refer themself as
Muslims
so then man when up the money comes to
power and he takes off his image the
first one is if that's of the Moloch
right there with a sword and there's
that Byzantine cross on the backside so
here you have his coin minted between
685 up until 692 then in 692 he takes
off the image and replace it with Arabic
script and what does he have on that
Arabic script can any of you read that
can you read it
Oh
lyla ilaha mohammed rasoolallah
that's the Shahada that's the first time
we see the Shahada introduced on that
coin in 692 that's the first time we see
Muhammad's name introduced on that coin
by Abdul Malik in 692 look at the date
692 all right now let's go to the Dome
of the rock meanwhile a year earlier he
introduces and puts this building in the
middle of Jerusalem why in the world
does he put it in Jerusalem why does he
put in Damascus the biggest structure of
its day the best most responded building
of its time using Byzantine architecture
the ones who built it were Byzantines
but look and see where he puts it he
puts it above the Church of the supply
curve there's the church of suffering it
looks down on to the church in the
supply curve the church of the supplier
is the sanctuary for the byzantine the
Christian Byzantines
that's where they go for their
pilgrimage so he's coming into Jerusalem
and basically he's saying we are now the
new people on the block he goes to their
sanctuary builds the largest building
but it has no Qibla which is true it
doesn't have a Qibla the reason why is
because the entire Citadel is facing
their Qibla it's facing Petra can you
see what's going on now let's go one
step further he employs the Byzantine
architecture much larger and more
prominent and sits above the Church of
the Holy Sepulchre which is the
Byzantine Christians sanctuary it is
situated in the holiest city for Jews
and Christians why should it should
really be in either Damascus or Mecca
unless of course he's trying to make a
point here
Muslims say it was built there to
commemorate the meadows the night
journey of Mohammed going to the seven
heavens in 621 go look at any of the
ambulatory look at any of the
inscriptions on the Dome of the rock you
won't see any reference to the Minhaj at
all no reference so let's look at the
inscriptions let's look now the Dome of
the rock the only part of the rock of
donor rock that is original are these
two ambulatory these two circular
colonnades all the rest has been rebuilt
and built and rebuilt and destroyed
eleven times so the only original part
are these two so that's why you need to
look at the inscriptions along there you
need to look
the ones are long they top all those
inscriptions there along the outer
ambulatory or revealing when you look at
the inscriptions you will see Sura for
171 o people of the scripture that's us
do not exaggerate in your religion nor
utter up concerning Allah save the truth
the Messiah Jesus son of Mary was only a
Messenger of Allah and his word which he
conveyed into Mary and a spirit from him
so believe in Allah and his messengers
and say not three seas it is better for
you Allah is only one God for is it
removed far is it removed from his
transcendent Majesty that he should have
a son who is that attacking Jesus the
Trinity and his son shipped right it's
attracting his divinity the sense of a
Jesus Christ and the Trinity all in one
verse sure 17 I 11 is there praise be to
God who have not taken unto him a son
there's the sonship who have no partner
there's the idea that God would have it
there would be two gods God the Father
and God the Son in the sovereignty nor
hath he any protecting friend through
dependence then you get Sura 1:12 there
is no god but God there's the Shahada he
is one he has no associates attacking
Jesus there again say he is God the one
God the attorney beside me sought of all
he begetteth not nor was he begotten
there is John 3:16 it's attacking and
there is none comparable unto him
Mohammed is a Messenger of God here
where is where Mohammed is introduced a
hundred years I'm sorry a year before
he's introduced on the coins he's first
introduced on the Dome of the rock this
is the first reference we have to
Muhammad anywhere in the world I'm sorry
within Arab sources he is actually
referred to in other sources outside of
Arab sources like the Doctrine Yacoubian
634 and the Chronicles of Ceballos in
660 but this is the first time that we
see his name on any Arab inscription so
here take a look and ask what does this
have to do with the mnage this has
nothing to do with the Minos this has
everything to do with Christianity it's
an attack against Jesus it's an attack
against the Trinity it's an attack
against the sons above God it's an
attack against everything we believe
these are the first Quranic verses we
can find anywhere isn't that interesting
on the Dome of the rock fascinating so
let's move from there and you'll see
what's going on
so of daemonic introduces here his ire
of identity in the guise of an Arab
prophet beginning with the Dome of the
rock it's larger than any other Arab
structure its facing the Arab sanctuary
Petra it incorporates inscriptions
against visiting Christianity it
introduces their faith Islam it
introduces their prophet Muslim and
introduces their people Muslim and
introduces their Prophet Mohammed
meanwhile the capable protocols that
were being studied by Yehuda Neville he
was there looking at all these scale for
protocols and he finds the cable for
protocols from the sufyani family up
until the mud one that family he finds
no bismillah that we find in the Quran
today he has finds no reference to
people call Muslims in them no reference
to any religion called Islam in them no
reference to any man called Mohammed in
them and no reference to any book call
to put on which should be in all through
these material because these are the
first Muslims it should be replete with
references to the word Islam to the word
Muslims to Muhammad and to his book
write nothing in any of the scale for
protocols until 691 in 691 the Shahada
is introduced into the paid careful
protocols overnight and then from then
on every careful protocol starts with a
Shahada introduced by of demonic the
same year that he introduces it on the
Dome of the rock a year before he
introduces it onto the coins so now you
have the building the inscriptions the
Caliph or protocols and the coins now
introducing an Arab prophet
to the air of people replaces the image
with Arabic script induces Shahada on
those coins so once of the Manik
introduces Mohammed then he needs to
have an Arab revelation the this is why
the earliest Quranic texts are on the
Dome of the rock 691 the earliest
Quranic manners cos begin to appear
during his reign the lower texts member
I showed you the poem says the Sunnah
that lower texts probably comes from the
last two decades the time of the monarch
I was in power and you notice it is only
63 verses there are 70 variants in just
those 63 verses so they have to wash it
off and then right over top the upper
layer is from 705 the 8th century that's
the earliest text we have all the other
manuscripts come after 705 oh I love
this
so the documentary evidence is
supporting what we're now seeing in the
archaeological evidence not only from
the Dome of the rock but also from the
documentary evidence of the inscriptions
the earliest Quranic managers begin to
appear during his reign the Quranic
manuscript begin to proliferate during
the reign of his son al walid from 705
to 750 then we see other manuscripts
starting to appear why weren't they
appearing at the time of both money in
650 - why are there suddenly appearing
in the 8th century why so late because
now they have a profit every profit has
to have a book can you then understand
when you put a book together you have to
put her together hurriedly and where do
you get your material from well you
borrow
that's why 70 percent of the Quran is
borrowed from other sources mostly from
Jewish Apocrypha writings and Christian
sectarian writings they borrowed the
wrong material god bless them they
should have gone back to the Bible
why didn't they borrow from this book
because this book was not in Arabic yet
it had been translated into Arabic this
was only translating they are the
earliest document we have for the the
Arabic Bible is 6 I want to get this
right
it's 8 768 two years before of the
al-balad e8 ninth century this was not
translated into Arabic until the ninth
century and that's the doctor the cine
Atticus one five one which is in the
monastery there in Sinai
now fascinating so they didn't have the
Arabic Bible to them to which to get
their material from now can you
understand the chronic inscription begin
to proliferate during his reign
none of the manuscripts are complete nor
are they parallel to today's Quran they
continued to be changed and corrected by
later caliphs up until to the ninth
century
the Quran is finally canonized at
al-azhar university in Cairo just for
Cairo in 1919 24 that's not actually
should be 95 years ago but was not
canonized for the whole world until 1985
just 34 years ago but can you see why
then once you have the man once you have
the prophet you need to have a
revelation that's why the Quran had to
be created that's why they had to have a
crown in place quickly now at that time
you have two empires that are create
that comes they're competing for an Arab
sanctuary the Umayyads in the early
Nabatean sanctuary and petra is
destroyed by an earthquake in 7:13
getting back to your question in 7:13
once there is an earthquake that which
they totally destroys Petra then God's
presence is no longer in Petra so that's
significant so that pretty much weakens
the ascendancy of the Umayyads and
that's why really you can see now they
know if they have no longer sanctuary
they no longer have any theological
legitimacy that's important
thus a new place is needed and that's
why Mecca is first noted in 727 possibly
chosen by the rebel of the eben Zubair
687 and his allies from Kufa the Abbas
is in defiance of the Umayyads in petra
the Abbasid and Zubair with their
century in mecca then demand allegiance
to the surrounding tribes all of those
kibbles facing Mecca are those who
allied himself with the Abbasid so this
is a political statement I'll judge
however remember our other judge is a
governor in over in Kufa in 706 he
rebelled against Abdul Malik
well actually mud one because 706 mud
one comes to power Walid comes to power
excuse me in Walid he rebelled in 706
against both and it is his mosques which
are facing in between so he's demanded
that all the mosque's face not Petra
norm eka because he's making a political
statement he wants to see who's gonna
win out who is gonna be the one he's
being basically he is being clever this
is what you do when you don't want to
ally with either one you want to see
who's gonna win out and that's why as a
rebel he does not like of the mnemonic
he does not like the mud when family and
so his mas are facing really a piece of
desert in the sand no real significance
other than they're halfway in between
now that's fascinating because they
continue to face summer in between until
he dies in 744 and when he dies his
killers die with him that's the second
Qibla those in North Africa and
Andalusia don't show allegiance to
either Empire so they have mas facing
parallel they are waiting to see who's
gonna win out and that's why all their
mosques are facing straight self
parallel to the line between Petra and
Mecca when the Abbas is finally
overpowered their minds in 749 most of
the Qibla then face Mecca with a few
holdouts until 822 after which they all
face Mecca so the ones that you see that
still come out after 749 are those who
still have allegiance to the Umayyads
but they're dwindling in power the
opposites are coming out gaining in
power so this is nothing more than a
political statement so here's what the
what if if possibility now that the
Muslims have a prophet called Mohammed
his name is now introduced in 691 a
revelation the Quran which starting to
be introduced in 705 a sanctuary called
Mecca which according to documentation
is not referred to until 741
but looks like it comes in two into
existence around between 713 and 727
because the first Moss that's facing
Mecca is 727 they then need a history
now can you understand why the histories
only begin to appear in the 9th century
it takes them a hundred years to finally
introduce the sitter
the biography of this prophet it takes a
man other 240 years to contras the
hadith the sayings in 870 and then the
tafseer is introduced in 9 23 so by the
9th century they then have the book the
man the place in the story and a new
religion is formed and growing yet not
something that was created in 22 years
like Muslims like to tell us it took two
to three hundred years to do this what
did they do with all those that
disagreed they eradicated and burned
anything that disagreed with that
narrative that's why you have wholesale
destruction of other texts now that's
actually in Albahari but Hadi does talk
about that but he puts it at earth
months time when he says that all the
manuscripts were destroyed no it
probably didn't ever happen there was no
manuscript at the time of with money but
what he is saying is this is very clear
the Abbasid then destroyed anything that
disagreed with this narrative that's why
you can burn books but you can't burn
buildings and you can't destroy
artifacts that's why the qibla is so
damaging and that's why the problem with
Mecca is even more damaging so summation
why are there no Muslim sources for 200
years why do the claims they make not
but the historical record why are the
geographical references so few and
confusing why do they all seem to be
much further north and why are there so
many references to vegetation which
would not exist in Mecca and why is
Mecca not mentioned until 741 nor
included in any maps until 900 why is
Mecca not even on international trade
route why do all the qibla face petra
stop until 706 then are confused for the
next hundred years up until 80 822 and
then finally canonized in around 822 to
847 200 years too late
why what is of the monix role in all of
this and does this not show that what he
was introducing was a nation Quran the
beginning of the Quran of the Islam and
the reason why he's beginning it because
he's created an error by
entity now can you see when you read the
Quran you notice over and over again it
says this is an Arab book in the Arab
language for the Arab people now can you
see why there's so much emphasis in
Arabic now can you see why you can only
read this in Arabic and why even as you
know as an Iranian the Arabs are always
elevated above all other people it's
very it's very racist isn't it the Arab
world always sees himself as superior
because that Arab identity was kraid by
Abdul Manik himself and that's why the
Arab language then was introduced on all
the coins in 691 as a script that became
the script for all people in all places
in all time so with that in mind what
are we gonna do with Mohammed how should
we critique him is considering this new
information we now have about him since
much of what we know about early Islam
is in doubt since much of the Quran is
also in doubt since nothing is known of
Muhammad until late the late 7th century
or Mecca until the mid eighth-century or
his story until the 9th century hundreds
of years later in hundreds of miles away
can we therefore conclude that Islam is
nothing more than a later redaction
posture begun by a bill Malik then
continued by his descendants proving
Muhammad had nothing to do with the
Quran so who is he and what is his
purpose
it looks like Muhammad hell is the wrong
man at the wrong place during the wrong
thing at the wrong time but I like to
end with Jesus how should we critique
Jesus using the same historical criteria
we use for Muhammad we know where Jesus
was born
Bethlehem we know where Jesus grew up
Nazareth we know where Jesus died and
then and when in Jerusalem we know what
Jesus did for the last three years of
his ministry we know this all from I
winced account Matthew and John we know
this all from hostile accounts even
people like Dallas Tacitus and Josephus
do talk about that death there on the
cross we know when they were written
between 15 and 60 years for that Gospel
accounts and the New Testament we know
that the few there that few doubt his
historicity proving that we have the
right man at the right place doing the
right thing at the right time
like with like so where to from here we
must confront Islam's historical
foundations I don't think we have a
choice any other choice but to more than
that we must challenge Muhammad in the
Quran this material is too damaging and
too important yes it is controversial
yes it is confrontational we must demand
that the same of all books not just the
Quran not just the Bible the Upanishads
the Vedas the Bhagavad Gita the Book of
Mormon all have to go through the same
test that I've just given to Islam and
we must bring it into the public sphere
too many do not want this to be known
like dr. Gerald Hutton he did not want
me to go down to speaker's corner I said
I'm not asking you to do it let us do it
and really this is something that we
have to do because we're the only ones
that have an antidote that you're all
hot things of pressure Crohn's have
nothing to offer Muslims we do because
the very same questions I've asked today
of Islam have been asked of this book in
about our Lord Jesus Christ we have
answered every one of those criticisms
we created the criticisms looking at the
Bible looking at Jesus looking at early
Christianity redacted criticism source
criticism literary criticism historical
because it would not exist without
Christianity mostly done by Christian
scholars can you then understand why we
are the best equipped because not only
do we understand the material better we
are the only ones that have an antidote
we have the only alternative we need to
bring them home now some of you want to
know how how can you learn more we now
have a course that we are not teaching
it's called a founder course on Islam
where we are teaching Islamic
apologetics and polemics but you don't
have to come to us we come to you this
is now a course for Christians only I'm
saying this to the camera this is not
for Muslims this is not your course this
is a course for Christians only those
who are working with Muslims any of you
who want to engage we come to you by
zoom webinar every Tuesday starting in
September to April these are the courses
we have four modules if we have a
foundational theological comparatives on
Jesus and atheism Islam Islamic belief
in practice Islamic law in
the biblical law biblical visuals and
and answers to best Muslim objections a
biblical critique of Allah and we have
then life question and answer for those
who teach that module 2 is a historical
I do an awful lot of this part a
theological and historical critique of
Mohammed we're looking at him of
Muhammad Allah in women the birth of
Islam what really happened this lecture
and then more similar it is between
Islam and debate Nabataean history where
I go into the antecedents of how Islam
really what it came out of and why is it
that we now have to go back to the
Nabataean came to understand where Islam
came today and in the spread of Islam
through the conquest and slavery with
the live quite Q&A period that's in
November and December then in January we
then go into textual and theological
critique looking at biblical truths seen
through the Christian church history the
Trinity right through the Bible we find
it all the way through the Old Testament
a new original the Quranic studies and
looking at the six earliest quran's and
folios analyze and then of course is the
Quran perfect and unchanged ending with
a live question-and-answer then we end
off with a mission and social
implications of doc while looking at
Christian engagement with of the problem
with chrislam looking at radical Islam
and what's behind Muslim yeah engagement
with Christianity Jesus through the
Bible and a live Q&A now in order to do
that you need to if you're interested in
this course it comes to your computer
you get all the handouts you get all the
powerpoints that we send you now that we
do but you can either be involved you
don't have to be there live it happens
from 2:00 to 4:00 o'clock English time
that means London time wherever you are
in the world you can either there and
watch it or you can get it down pull it
down at your leisure it goes up then
that next day up online to our view you
have to have a code you have to and it
costs 210 pounds for the whole year and
then you get a certificate if you go
through the whole course we've now this
is the fourth year brief we've done it
we've had over 400 students do this in
21 different countries if you're
interested you need to go to courses at
founder dot UK just write them ask them
for a brochure ask them for information
on it and they can either get you
registered now it doesn't start till
September so you do have a few months
ahead of you but do get it in this is
the only course anywhere
the world that teaches you both Islamic
apologetics and polemics this is of
course we can't teach in schools I do it
but not only I come in
surreptitiously no one advertises that
I'm there only the students know I'm
coming
because if Muslims knew that we were
teaching this in schools they would
target those schools but we can use the
Internet so do I think about moving on
from here and getting this material you
can get it in Russia and anywhere in
Europe you can get it all over the world
and that's their mobility of doing that
you